1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE

Tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14) ].

Tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules are an antimuscarinic indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. ( 1)

2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

4 mg capsules taken orally once daily with water and swallowed whole. ( 2.1)
2 mg capsules taken orally once daily with water and swallowed whole in the presence of:
° mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B) ( 2.2)
° severe renal impairment [Creatinine Clearance (CCr) 10 to 30 mL/min] ( 2.2)
° drugs that are potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 2.2)
Tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with CCr <10 mL/min. ( 2.2)
Tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). ( 2.2)

2.1 Dosing Information

The recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules is 4 mg once daily with water and swallowed whole. The dose may be lowered to 2 mg daily based on individual response and tolerability; however, limited efficacy data are available for tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules 2 mg [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14) ].

2.2 Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations

For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B) or severe renal impairment (CCr 10 to 30 mL/min), the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules is 2 mg once daily. Tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Patients with CCr<10 mL/min have not been studied and use of tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules in this population is not recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6, 8.7) ].

2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Presence of Concomitant Drugs

For patients who are taking drugs that are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 [e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir], the recommended dose of tolterodine tartrate extended-release capsules is 2 mg once daily [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.2) ].