1. Certificates of deposit, U.S. government securities,
foreign currency, and actively traded personal prop-
erty, including stock and securities.

If the building is a certified historic structure, the modifi-

cation must also be part of a certified rehabilitation.

If these conditions are met, add the costs of the modifi-

2. Accounts receivable, other debt instruments, and as-
sets you mark to market at least annually for federal
income tax purposes.

3. Property of a kind that would properly be included in
inventory if on hand at the end of the tax year or prop-
erty held primarily for sale to customers in the ordi-
nary course of business.

4. All other assets except section 197 intangibles, good-

will, and going concern value.

5. Section 197 intangibles except goodwill and going

concern value.

6. Goodwill and going concern value (whether or not

they qualify as section 197 intangibles).

Agreement. The buyer and seller may enter into a written
agreement as to the allocation of any consideration or the
FMV of any of the assets. This agreement is binding on
both parties unless the IRS determines the amounts are
not appropriate.

Reporting requirement. Both the buyer and seller in-
volved in the sale of business assets must report to the
IRS the allocation of the sales price among section 197 in-
tangibles and the other business assets. Use Form 8594
to provide this information. The buyer and seller should
each attach Form 8594 to their federal income tax return
for the year in which the sale occurred.

More information. See Sale of a Business in chapter 2
of Pub. 544 for more information.

Land and Buildings

If you buy buildings and the land on which they stand for a
lump sum, allocate the basis of the property among the
land and the buildings so you can figure the depreciation
allowable on the buildings.

Figure the basis of each asset by multiplying the lump
sum by a fraction. The numerator is the FMV of that asset
and the denominator is the FMV of the whole property at
the time of purchase. If you're not certain of the FMV of
the land and buildings, you can allocate the basis based
on their assessed values for real estate tax purposes.

Demolition of building. Add demolition costs and other
losses incurred for the demolition of any building to the ba-
sis of the land on which the demolished building was loca-
ted. Don't claim the costs as a current deduction.

Modification of building. A modification of a building
won't be treated as a demolition if both the following con-
ditions are satisfied.
• 75% or more of the existing external walls of the build-
ing are retained in place as internal or external walls.
• 75% or more of the existing internal structural frame-

work of the building is retained in place.

cations to the basis of the building.

Subdivided lots. If you buy a tract of land and subdivide
it, you must determine the basis of each lot. This is neces-
sary because you must figure the gain or loss on the sale
of each individual lot. As a result, you don't recover your
entire cost in the tract until you have sold all of the lots.

To determine the basis of an individual lot, multiply the
total cost of the tract by a fraction. The numerator is the
FMV of the lot and the denominator is the FMV of the en-
tire tract.

Future improvement costs. If you're a developer and
sell subdivided lots before the development work is com-
pleted, you can (with IRS consent) include in the basis of
the properties sold an allocation of the estimated future
cost for common improvements. See Revenue Procedure
92-29, 1992-1 C.B. 748, for more information, including an
explanation of the procedures for getting consent from the
IRS.

Use of erroneous cost basis. If you made a mistake
in figuring the cost basis of subdivided lots sold in previ-
ous years, you can't correct the mistake for years for which
the statute of limitations (generally, 3 tax years) has ex-
pired. Figure the basis of any remaining lots by allocating
the correct original cost basis of the entire tract among the
original lots.

Example. You bought a tract of land to which you as-
signed a cost of $15,000. You subdivided the land into 15
building lots of equal size and equitably divided your basis
so that each lot had a basis of $1,000. You treated the
sale of each lot as a separate transaction and figured gain
or loss separately on each sale.

Several years later, you determine that your original ba-
sis in the tract was $22,500 and not $15,000. You sold
eight lots using $8,000 of basis in years for which the stat-
ute of limitations has expired. You now can take $1,500 of
basis into account for figuring gain or loss only on the sale
of each of the remaining seven lots ($22,500 basis divided
among all 15 lots). You can't refigure the basis of the eight
lots sold in tax years barred by the statute of limitations.

Adjusted Basis

Before figuring gain or loss on a sale, exchange, or other
disposition of property, or figuring allowable depreciation,
depletion, or amortization, you must usually make certain
adjustments to the basis of the property. The result of
these adjustments to the basis is the adjusted basis.

Increases to Basis

Increase the basis of any property by all items properly
added to a capital account. These include the cost of any
improvements having a useful life of more than 1 year.

6

Publication 551 (12-2025)
Table 1. Examples of Increases and Decreases to Basis

Increases to basis
Capital improvements:

Putting an addition on your home
Replacing an entire roof
Paving your driveway
Installing central air conditioning
Rewiring your home

Assessments for local improvements:

Water connections
Sidewalks
Roads

Casualty losses:

Restoring damaged property

Legal fees:

Cost of defending and perfecting a title

Zoning costs

Decreases to basis
Exclusion from income of subsidies for energy conservation measures

Casualty or theft loss deductions and insurance reimbursements

Certain vehicle credits

Section 179 deduction

Depreciation

Nontaxable corporate distributions

Rehabilitation expenses also increase basis. However,
you must subtract any rehabilitation credit allowed for
these expenses before you add them to your basis. If you
have to recapture any of the credit, increase your basis by
the recaptured amount.

If you make additions or improvements to business
property, keep separate accounts for them. Also, you must
depreciate the basis of each according to the depreciation
rules that would apply to the underlying property if you had
placed it in service at the same time you placed the addi-
tion or improvement in service. For more information, see
Pub. 946.

The following items increase the basis of property.
• The cost of extending utility service lines to the prop-

erty.

• Impact fees.
• Legal fees, such as the cost of defending and perfect-

ing title.

• Legal fees for obtaining a decrease in an assessment
levied against property to pay for local improvements.

• Zoning costs.
• The capitalized value of a redeemable ground rent.

Assessments for Local Improvements

Increase the basis of property by assessments for items
such as paving roads and building ditches that increase
the value of the property assessed. Don't deduct them as
taxes. However, you can deduct as taxes charges for
maintenance, repairs, or interest charges related to the
improvements.

Example. Your city changes the street in front of your
store into an enclosed pedestrian mall and assesses you
and other affected landowners for the cost of the conver-
sion. Add the assessment to your property's basis. In this
example, the assessment is a depreciable asset.

Deducting vs. Capitalizing Costs

Don't add to your basis costs you can deduct as current
expenses. For example, amounts paid for incidental re-
pairs or maintenance that are deductible as business ex-
penses can't be added to basis. However, you can choose
either to deduct or to capitalize certain other costs. If you
capitalize these costs, include them in your basis. If you
deduct them, don't include them in your basis. See Uni-
form Capitalization Rules, earlier.

The costs you can choose to deduct or to capitalize in-

clude the following.

• Carrying charges, such as interest and taxes, that you
pay to own property, except carrying charges that
must be capitalized under the uniform capitalization
rules.

• Research and experimental costs.
• Intangible drilling and development costs for oil, gas,

and geothermal wells.

• Exploration costs for new mineral deposits.
• Mining development costs for a new mineral deposit.
• Costs of establishing, maintaining, or increasing the

circulation of a newspaper or other periodical.
• Costs of removing architectural and transportation
barriers to people with disabilities and the elderly. If
you claim the disabled access credit, you must reduce
the amount you deduct or capitalize by the amount of
the credit.

Decreases to Basis

The following are some items that reduce the basis of
property.
• Section 179 deduction.
• Deduction under section 179D for certain energy effi-

cient commercial building property.
• Nontaxable corporate distributions.

Publication 551 (12-2025)

7
are reciprocal and mutually dependent, you're treated as
having exchanged your old property for the new property.
In that case, your basis for depreciation for the new prop-
erty is $650,000, the same as if you had exchanged the
old property for the new property.

Partial Business Use of Property

If you have real property, a portion of which is used for
business and a portion of which is used for personal use,
and you exchange it in a nontaxable exchange for real
property to be used wholly or partly in your business, the
basis of the property you receive is figured separately for
the business and nonbusiness use parts. The part of the
property used for business is an exchange of like-kind
property. The personal-use part of the property is property
on which gain is recognized.

Figure the adjusted basis of each part of the property
by taking into account any adjustments to basis. Deduct
the depreciation you took or could have taken from the ad-
justed basis of the business part. Then figure the amount
realized for your property and allocate it to the business
and nonbusiness parts of the property.

You're deemed to have received, in exchange for the
nonbusiness part, an amount equal to its FMV on the date
of the exchange. The basis of the property you acquired is
the total basis of the property transferred (adjusted to the
date of the exchange), increased by any gain recognized
on the nonbusiness part.

Tip: If the nonbusiness part of the property transferred
is your main home, you may qualify to exclude from in-
come all or part of the gain on that part. For more informa-
tion, see Pub. 523.

Property Transferred From a Spouse

The basis of property transferred to you or transferred in
trust for your benefit by your spouse (or former spouse if
the transfer is incident to divorce) is the same as your
spouse's adjusted basis. However, adjust your basis for
any gain recognized by your spouse or former spouse on
property transferred in trust. This rule applies only to a
transfer of property in trust in which the liabilities as-
sumed, plus the liabilities to which the property is subject,
are more than the adjusted basis of the property transfer-
red.

If the property transferred to you is a series E, series
EE, or series I U.S. savings bond, the transferor must in-
clude in income the interest accrued to the date of trans-
fer. Your basis in the bond immediately after the transfer is
equal to the transferor's basis increased by the interest in-
come includible in the transferor's income. For more infor-
mation on these bonds, see Pub. 550.

At the time of the transfer, the transferor must give you
the records necessary to determine the adjusted basis
and holding period of the property as of the date of trans-
fer.

For more information, see Pub. 504, Divorced or Sepa-

rated Individuals.

Property Received as a Gift

To figure the basis of property you receive as a gift, you
must know its adjusted basis (defined earlier) to the donor
just before it was given to you, its FMV at the time it was
given to you, and any gift tax paid on it.

For a distribution of property that was gifted to a trust,

see Property Received from a Trust, later.

FMV Less Than Donor's Adjusted Basis

If the FMV of the property at the time of the gift is less than
the donor's adjusted basis, your basis depends on
whether you have a gain or a loss when you dispose of the
property. Your basis for figuring gain is the same as the
donor's adjusted basis plus or minus any required adjust-
ment to basis while you held the property. Your basis for
figuring loss is its FMV when you received the gift plus or
minus any required adjustment to basis while you held the
property (see Adjusted Basis, earlier).

If you use the donor's adjusted basis for figuring a gain
and get a loss, and then use the FMV for figuring a loss
and have a gain, you have neither gain nor loss on the
sale or disposition of the property.

Example. You received an acre of land as a gift. At the
time of the gift, the land had an FMV of $8,000. The do-
nor's adjusted basis was $10,000. After you received the
land, no events occurred to increase or decrease your ba-
sis. If you sell the land for $12,000, you'll have a $2,000
gain because you must use the donor's adjusted basis
($10,000) at the time of the gift as your basis to figure
gain. If you sell the land for $7,000, you'll have a $1,000
loss because you must use the FMV ($8,000) at the time
of the gift as your basis to figure a loss.

If the sales price is between $8,000 and $10,000, you
have neither gain nor loss. For instance, if the sales price
was $9,000 and you tried to figure a gain using the donor's
adjusted basis ($10,000), you would get a $1,000 loss. If
you then tried to figure a loss using the FMV ($8,000), you
would get a $1,000 gain.

Business property. If you hold the gift as business prop-
erty, your basis for figuring any depreciation, depletion, or
amortization deduction is the same as the donor's adjus-
ted basis plus or minus any required adjustments to basis
while you hold the property.

FMV Equal to or More Than Donor's
Adjusted Basis

If the FMV of the property is equal to or greater than the
donor's adjusted basis, your basis is the donor's adjusted
basis at the time you received the gift. Increase your basis
by all or part of any gift tax paid, depending on the date of
the gift.

14

Publication 551 (12-2025)
U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts, for more
information. If property is distributed to you from a grantor
trust, the distribution is considered to be a transfer from
the grantor or other owner of the trust. If you are the gran-
tor or other owner of the grantor trust, then the distribution
generally has no effect on the basis of the property. If you
are not the grantor or other owner of the grantor trust (for
example, if you are a beneficiary), then the distribution
from the trust is generally treated as a gift to you from the
grantor or other owner. See Property Received as a Gift,
earlier.

If property is distributed to you from a non-grantor trust
you will generally take a carryover basis in the property
under IRC section 643. Your basis in the distributed prop-
erty will generally be the same as the trust's adjusted ba-
sis immediately before the distribution, as further adjusted
for any gain or loss recognized by the trust on the distribu-
tion. For a trust's basis in property gifted to the trust, see
Property Received as a Gift, earlier. For a trust's basis in
inherited property included in the trust settlor's gross es-
tate, see Inherited Property, earlier.

Example. Assume the same facts as in the previous
example except that you sell the property at a gain after
being allowed depreciation deductions of $37,500. Your
adjusted basis for figuring gain is $165,500 ($178,000 +
$25,000 (land) − $37,500).

Loss. Figure the basis for a loss starting with the
smaller of your adjusted basis or the FMV of the property
at the time of the change to business or rental use. Then
adjust this amount for the period after the change in the
property's use, as discussed earlier under Adjusted Basis,
to arrive at a basis for loss.

Example. Assume the same facts as in the previous
example, except that you sell the property at a loss after
being allowed depreciation deductions of $37,500. In this
case, you would start with the FMV on the date of the
change to rental use ($180,000) because it's less than the
adjusted basis of $203,000 ($178,000 + $25,000) on that
date. Reduce that amount ($180,000) by the depreciation
deductions to arrive at a basis for loss of $142,500
($180,000 − $37,500).

Property Changed to Business or
Rental Use

How To Get Tax Help

If you hold property for personal use and then change it to
business use or use it to produce rent, you must figure its
basis for depreciation. An example of changing property
held for personal use to business use would be renting out
your former main home.

Basis for depreciation. The basis for depreciation is the
lesser of the following amounts.

• The FMV of the property on the date of the change, or
• Your adjusted basis on the date of the change.

Example. Several years ago, you paid $160,000 to
have your home built on a lot that cost $25,000. You paid
$20,000 for permanent improvements to the house and
claimed a $2,000 casualty loss deduction for damage to
the house before changing the property to rental use last
year. Because land isn't depreciable, you include only the
cost of the house when figuring the basis for depreciation.

Your adjusted basis in the house when you changed its
use was $178,000 ($160,000 + $20,000 − $2,000). On the
same date, your property had an FMV of $180,000, of
which $15,000 was for the land and $165,000 was for the
house. The basis for figuring depreciation on the house is
its FMV on the date of change ($165,000) because it's
less than your adjusted basis ($178,000).

Sale of property. If you later sell or dispose of property
changed to business or rental use, the basis of the prop-
erty you use will depend on whether you're figuring gain or
loss.

Gain. The basis for figuring a gain is your adjusted ba-

sis when you sell the property.

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

legislation

Tax reform. Tax reform
impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with

Publication 551 (12-2025)

17
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-
come.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4app)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your

e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,

and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-

racy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification

number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
parer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers can register to use Business Services On-
line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a sin-
gle-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business
IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.

tax account. Go

to

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-
mation with you.Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, in-
formative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.

Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.

Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS of-
fers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language inter-
pretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assis-
tance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Span-
ish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.

18

Publication 551 (12-2025)

!

CAUTION