Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Contents

Publication 531
(Rev. December 2024)
Cat. No. 15059V

Reporting
Tip
Income

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Sep 25, 2024

Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Keeping a Daily Tip Record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Reporting Tips to Your Employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Reporting Tips on Your Tax Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Allocated Tips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 531, such as
it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub531.

legislation enacted after

Reminder
Continuous use publication. Publication 531 will no
longer be updated annually. Instead, it will only be upda-
ted when necessary.

Publication 1244 no longer available. Beginning in
2024, the Publication 1244 has been made obsolete and
will no longer be made available.

Form 4070 and Form 4070A are historical. The Form
4070, Employee's Report of Tips to Employer, and Form
4070A, Employee's Daily Record of Tips, previously inclu-
ded in the Publication 1244, were made historical. The
steps on How to keep a daily tip record and How to report
your tips to your employer are provided later. The previous
revisions of the Forms 4070 and 4070A are still available
on the Prior Year Forms and Instructions page at IRS.gov/
prior-year-forms-and-instructions.

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in instructions on pages
that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring these
children home by looking at the photographs and calling
1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a
child.

Introduction
This publication is for employees who receive tips. All tips
you receive are income and are subject to federal income
tax. You must include in gross income all tips you receive
directly, charged tips paid to you by your employer, and
your share of any tips you receive under a tip-splitting or
tip-pooling arrangement.
tips for the rest of the year totaled $7,000. You weren’t re-
quired to report any June tips to your employer, but you re-
ported all of the rest of your tips to your employer as re-
quired.

Your Form W-2 from Blue Ocean Restaurant shows
$17,000 ($10,000 wages + $7,000 reported tips) in box 1.
You must add the $18 unreported tips to that amount and
report $17,018 as wages on your tax return.

Reporting social security, Medicare, Additional Medi-
care, or railroad retirement taxes on tips not reported
to your employer. If you received $20 or more in cash
and charge tips in a month from any one job and didn’t re-
port all of those tips to your employer, you must report the
social security, Medicare, and Additional Medicare taxes
on the unreported tips as additional tax on your return. To
report these taxes, you must file Form 1040, Form
1040-SR, Form 1040-NR, Form 1040-PR, or Form
1040-SS even if you won’t otherwise have to file.

Use Form 4137, Social Security and Medicare Tax on
Unreported Tip Income, to figure social security and Medi-
care taxes and/or Form 8959, Additional Medicare Tax, to
figure Additional Medicare Tax. Enter the tax(es) on your
return as instructed, and attach the completed Form 4137
and/or Form 8959 to your return.

If you’re subject to the Railroad Retirement Tax
Act, you can't use Form 4137 to pay railroad re-
tirement tax on unreported tips. To get railroad re-

tirement credit, you must report tips to your employer.

Reporting uncollected social security, Medicare, Ad-
ditional Medicare, or railroad retirement taxes on tips
reported to your employer. You may have uncollected
taxes if your regular pay wasn’t enough for your employer
to withhold all the taxes you owe and you didn’t give your
employer enough money to pay the rest of the taxes. For
more information, see Giving your employer money for
taxes under Reporting Tips to Your Employer, earlier.

If your employer couldn’t collect all the social security,
Medicare, and Additional Medicare taxes, or railroad re-
tirement taxes you owe on tips reported in the tax year, the
uncollected taxes will be shown in box 12 of your Form
W-2 (codes A and B). You must report these amounts as
additional tax on your return.

If you worked in the U.S. territories and received Form
W-2AS, W-2CM, W-2GU, or W-2VI, any uncollected taxes
on tips will be shown in box 12 with codes A and B. If you
received Form 499R-2/W-2PR, any uncollected taxes will
be shown according to its instructions. Unlike the uncol-
lected portion of the regular (1.45%) Medicare tax, the un-
collected Additional Medicare Tax isn't reported on Form
W-2. To report these uncollected taxes, you must file Form
1040-NR or Form 1040-SS even if you wouldn’t otherwise
have to file. You can report these taxes on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 13, if you file Form 1040-NR. If you file
Form 1040-SS, see the instructions for the form.

Self-employed persons. If you receive tips as a self-em-
ployed person, you should report these tips as income on
Schedule C. See Publication 334, Tax Guide for Small

Business, for more information on reporting business in-
come.

Allocated Tips

If your employer allocated tips to you, they’re shown sepa-
rately in box 8 of your Form W-2. They’re not included in
box 1 with your wages and reported tips. If box 8 is blank,
this discussion doesn't apply to you.

What are allocated tips? These are tips that your em-
ployer assigned to you in addition to the tips you reported
to your employer for the year. Your employer will have
done this only if:
• You worked in an establishment (restaurant, cocktail
lounge, or similar business) that must allocate tips to
employees, and

• The tips you reported to your employer were less than

your share of 8% of food and drink sales.

No income, social security, Medicare, Additional Medi-
care, or railroad retirement taxes are withheld on allocated
tips.

How were your allocated tips figured? The tips alloca-
ted to you are your share of an amount figured by sub-
tracting the reported tips of all employees from 8% (or an
approved lower rate) of food and drink sales (other than
carryout sales and sales with a service charge of 10% or
more). Your share of that amount was figured using either
a method provided by an employer-employee agreement
or a method provided by IRS regulations based on em-
ployees' sales or hours worked. For information about the
exact allocation method used, ask your employer.

Must you report your allocated tips on your tax re-
turn? You must report tips you received in the tax year
(including both cash and noncash tips) on your tax return
as explained in What tips to report, earlier. Any tips you re-
ported to your employer in the tax year as required (ex-
plained under Reporting Tips to Your Employer, earlier)
are included in the wages shown in box 1 of your Form
W-2. Add to the amount in box 1 only the tips you didn’t
report to your employer as required. This should include
any allocated tips shown in box 8 on your Form(s) W-2,
unless you have adequate records to show that you re-
ceived less tips in the year than the allocated amount.

See What tips to report under Reporting Tips on Your

Tax Return, and Keeping a Daily Tip Record, earlier.

How to report allocated tips. If you received any tips in
the tax year that you didn’t report to your employer as re-
quired (including allocated tips that you are required to re-
port on your tax return), add these tips to the amount in
box 1 of your Form(s) W-2 and report this amount as wa-
ges on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1; or Form 1040-NR,
line 1a.

Because social security, Medicare, or Additional Medi-
care taxes weren’t withheld from the allocated tips, you
must report those taxes as additional tax on your return.

Publication 531 (12-2024)

5

!

CAUTION
Complete Form 4137 and include the allocated tips on
line 1 of the form as provided in its instructions. See Re-
porting social security, Medicare, Additional Medicare, or
railroad retirement taxes on tips not reported to your em-
ployer under Reporting Tips on Your Tax Return, earlier.

How to request an approved lower rate. Your em-
ployer can use a tip rate lower than 8% (but not lower than
2%) to figure allocated tips only if the IRS approves the
lower rate. Either the employer or the employees can re-
quest approval of a lower rate by filing a petition with the
IRS. The petition must include specific information about
the establishment that will justify the lower rate. A user fee
must be paid with the petition.

An employee petition can be filed only with the consent
of a majority of the directly tipped employees (waiters, bar-
tenders, and others who receive tips directly from custom-
ers). The petition must state the total number of directly
tipped employees and the number of employees consent-
ing to the petition. Employees filing the petition must
promptly notify the employer, and the employer must
promptly give the IRS a copy of all Forms 8027, Employ-
er's Annual Information Return of Tip Income and Alloca-
ted Tips, filed for the establishment for the previous 3
years.

For more information about how to file a petition and
what information to include, see Allocation of Tips in the
Instructions for Form 8027.

How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.

• Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-
dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly
and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for
taxpayers in participating states who have relatively
simple tax returns reporting certain types of income
and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Di-
rect File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a
participating state, Direct File guides you to a
state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file

your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile
for more information, program updates, and frequently
asked questions.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-
come.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
tax filing needs.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

6

Publication 531 (12-2024)
instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.

IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.

Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access infor-
mation about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax

year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment

plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history

and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your

most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-

fessionals.

• View your address on file or manage your communica-

tion preferences.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to re-
ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go
IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.

to

Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-
phone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),

passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-
nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are
six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-
vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
vents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

vice to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire

refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax must be
remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how
to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated
tax payment directly from your checking or savings ac-
count at no cost to you.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-

dress listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at

a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order.

8

Publication 531 (12-2024)

!

CAUTION