Casualty losses can result from a number of different

causes, including the following.
• Car accidents (but see Nondeductible losses next for

exceptions).
• Earthquakes.
• Fires (but see Nondeductible losses next for excep-

tions).
• Floods.
• Government-ordered demolition or relocation of a

home that is unsafe to use because of a disaster as
discussed under Disaster Area Losses, later.

and drapes caused by the bursting of a water heater
does qualify as a casualty.

• Most losses of property caused by droughts. To be de-
ductible, a drought-related loss must generally be in-
curred in a trade or business or in a transaction en-
tered into for profit.

• Termite or moth damage.
• The damage or destruction of trees, shrubs, or other

plants by a fungus, disease, insects, worms, or similar
pests. However, a sudden destruction due to an unex-
pected or unusual infestation of beetles or other in-
sects may result in a casualty loss.

• Mine cave-ins.
• Shipwrecks.
• Sonic booms.
• Storms, including hurricanes and tornadoes.
• Terrorist attacks.
• Vandalism.
• Volcanic eruptions.

Special Procedure for Damage From
Corrosive Drywall

Caution: Because

the personal casualty

losses
claimed under this special procedure aren’t attributable to
a federally declared disaster, they’re only deductible to the
extent such losses don’t exceed your personal casualty
gains.

Nondeductible losses. A casualty loss isn’t deductible,
even to the extent the loss doesn’t exceed your personal
casualty gains, if the damage or destruction is caused by
the following.

• Accidentally breaking articles such as glassware or

china under normal conditions.
• A family pet (explained below).
• A fire if you willfully set it or pay someone else to set it.
• A car accident if your willful negligence or willful act
caused it. The same is true if the willful act or willful
negligence of someone acting for you caused the ac-
cident.

• Progressive deterioration (explained below). However,
see Special Procedure for Damage From Corrosive
Drywall, later.

Family pet. Loss of property due to damage by a fam-
ily pet isn’t deductible as a casualty loss unless the re-
quirements discussed earlier under Casualty are met.

Example. Your antique oriental rug was damaged by
your new puppy before it was housebroken. Because the
damage wasn’t unexpected and unusual, the loss isn’t de-
ductible as a casualty loss.

Progressive deterioration. Loss of property due to
progressive deterioration isn’t deductible as a casualty
loss. This is because the damage results from a steadily
operating cause or a normal process rather than from a
sudden event. The following are examples of damage due
to progressive deterioration.

• The steady weakening of a building due to normal

wind and weather conditions.

• The deterioration and damage to a water heater that
bursts. However, the rust and water damage to rugs

If you suffered property losses due to the effects of cer-
tain imported drywall installed in homes between 2001
and 2009, under a special procedure, you can deduct the
amounts you paid to repair damage to your home and
household appliances due to corrosive drywall. Under this
procedure, you treat the amounts paid for repairs as a
casualty loss in the year of payment. For example,
amounts you paid for repairs in 2025 are deductible on
your 2025 tax return and amounts you paid for repairs in
2024 are deductible on your 2024 tax return.

Note: If you paid for any repairs before 2025 and you
choose to follow this special procedure, you can amend
your return for the earlier year by filing Form 1040-X,
Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, and attach-
ing a completed Form 4684 for the appropriate year. Form
4684 for the appropriate year can be found at IRS.gov.
Generally, Form 1040-X must be filed within 3 years after
the date the original return was filed or within 2 years after
the date the tax was paid, whichever is later.

Corrosive drywall. For purposes of this special proce-
dure, “corrosive drywall” means drywall that is identified
as problem drywall under the two-step
identification
method published by the Consumer Product Safety Com-
mission (CPSC) and the Department of Housing and Ur-
ban Development (HUD) in their interim guidance dated
January 28, 2010, as revised by the CPSC and HUD. The
revised identification guidance and remediation guidelines
are available at CPSC.gov/en/Safety-Education/Safety-
Education-Centers/Drywall-Information-Center.

Special instructions for completing Form 4684. If you
choose to follow this special procedure, complete Form
4684, Section A, according to the instructions below. The
IRS won’t challenge your treatment of damage resulting
from corrosive drywall as a casualty loss if you determine
and report the loss as explained below.

Publication 547 (2025)

5
Table 2. Deduction Limit Rules for Personal-Use Property

General Application

Single Event

$100 rule

10% rule

You must reduce each casualty or theft loss by
$100 when figuring your deduction. Apply this
rule to personal-use property after you have
figured the amount of your loss.^1

You must reduce your total casualty or theft
loss attributable to a federally declared disaster
by 10% of your AGI. Apply this rule to
personal-use property after you reduce each
loss by $100 (the $100 rule).^2

Apply this rule only once, even if many pieces
of property are affected.

Apply this rule only once, even if many pieces
of property are affected.

More Than One Event

Apply to the loss from each event.

Apply to the total of all your losses from all
federally declared disasters.

More Than One Person—

With Loss From the Same Event
(other than a married couple filing jointly)

Married Couple—
With Loss From the
Same Event

Filing
Joint
Return

Filing
Separate
Return

Apply separately to each person.

Apply separately to each person.

Apply as if you were one person.

Apply as if you were one person.

Apply separately to each spouse.

Apply separately to each spouse.

More Than One Owner
(other than a married couple filing jointly)

Apply separately to each owner of jointly
owned property.

Apply separately to each owner of jointly
owned property.

1 Qualified disaster losses must be reduced by $500 when figuring your deduction. See Disaster Area Losses, later, for more information.

2 The 10% rule doesn’t apply to qualified disaster losses. See Disaster Area Losses, later, for more information.

A temporary increase in your living expenses is the dif-
ference between the actual living expenses you and your
family incurred during the period you couldn’t use your
home and your normal living expenses for that period. Ac-
tual living expenses are the reasonable and necessary ex-
penses incurred because of the loss of your main home.
Generally, these expenses include the amounts you pay
for the following.

• Renting suitable housing.
• Transportation.
• Food.
• Utilities.
• Miscellaneous services.
Normal living expenses consist of these same expenses
that you would have incurred but didn’t because of the
casualty or the threat of one.

Example. As a result of a hurricane, you vacated your
apartment for a month and moved to a motel. You nor-
mally pay $1,400 a month for rent. None was charged for
the month the apartment was vacated. Your motel rent for
this month was $3,000. You normally pay $500 a month for
food. Your food expenses for the month you lived in the
motel were $850. You received $2,200 from your insur-
ance company to cover your living expenses. You deter-
mine the payment you must include in income as follows.

1.
Insurance payment for living expenses .
.
2. Actual expenses during the month you are
unable to use your home because of the
hurricane .
.
.

.
3. Normal living expenses .

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

. $2,200

.

.

$3,850
1,900

from line 2 .

4. Temporary increase in living expenses: Subtract line 3
.
.
.
.
5. Amount of payment includible in income: Subtract line 4
.
.

from line 1 .

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

1,950

$ 250

Tax year of inclusion. You include the taxable part of
the insurance payment in income for the year you regain
the use of your main home or, if later, for the year you re-
ceive the taxable part of the insurance payment.

Example. Your main home was destroyed by a tornado
in June 2023. You regained use of your home in Novem-
ber 2024. The insurance payments you received in 2023
and 2024 were $1,500 more than the temporary increase
in your living expenses during those years. You include
this amount in income on your 2024 Form 1040. If, in
2025, you receive further payments to cover the living ex-
penses you had in 2023 and 2024, you must include those
payments in income on your 2025 Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

Disaster relief. Food, medical supplies, and other forms
of assistance you receive don’t reduce your casualty loss
unless they are replacements for lost or destroyed prop-
erty.

Tip: Qualified disaster relief payments you receive for
expenses you incurred as a result of a federally declared
disaster aren’t taxable income to you. For more informa-
tion, see Qualified disaster relief payments under Disaster
Area Losses, later.

Publication 547 (2025)

13
you were compensated by a qualified wildfire relief pay-
ment.

Table 3. When To Deduct a Casualty or Theft
Loss

Note: For more information about qualified wildfire re-
lief payments, including frequently asked questions, go to
Wildfire relief payments frequently asked questions.

Tip: If you did not exclude from your income certain
qualified wildfire relief payments or East Palestine disaster
relief payments you received, you may need to file an
amended return on Form 1040-X to claim these benefits.
Form 1040-X is available at IRS.gov/Form1040X. Prior re-
visions for Form 4684 are available at IRS.gov/Form4684.

Qualified disaster mitigation payments. Qualified dis-
aster mitigation payments made under the Stafford Act or
the National Flood Insurance Act (as in effect on April 15,
2005) aren’t included in income. These are payments you,
as a property owner, receive to reduce the risk of future
damage to your property. You can’t increase your basis in
the property, or take a deduction or credit, for expendi-
tures made with respect to those payments.

Sale of property under hazard mitigation program.
Generally, if you sell or otherwise transfer property, you
must recognize any gain or loss for tax purposes unless
the property is your main home. You report the gain or de-
duct the loss on your tax return for the year you realize it.
(You can’t deduct a loss on personal-use property unless
the loss resulted from a casualty, as discussed earlier.)
However, if you sell or otherwise transfer property to the
federal government, a state or local government, or an In-
dian tribal government under a hazard mitigation program,
you can choose to postpone reporting the gain if you buy
qualifying replacement property within a certain period of
time. See Postponement of Gain, earlier, for the rules that
apply.

Gains. Special rules apply if you choose to postpone re-
porting gain on property damaged or destroyed in a feder-
ally declared disaster area. For these special rules, see
the following discussions.
• Main home in disaster area, earlier, under Replace-

ment Property.

• Business or income-producing property located in a
federally declared disaster area, earlier, under Re-
placement Property.

IF you have a loss...*

THEN deduct it in the...

from a casualty*

year the loss occurred.

in a federally declared
disaster area

disaster year or the year immediately
before the disaster year.

from a theft*

year the theft was discovered.

on a deposit treated as a
casualty

year a reasonable estimate can be
made.

* If you are an individual, casualty and theft losses of personal-use property
are deductible only if the loss is attributable to a federally declared disaster or
a transaction entered into for profit. An exception applies where you have
personal casualty gains.

Postponed Tax Deadlines

The IRS may postpone for up to 1 year certain tax dead-
lines of taxpayers who are affected by a federally declared
(or state-declared, as described below) disaster. The tax
deadlines the IRS may postpone include those for filing in-
come, excise, and employment tax returns; paying in-
come, excise, and employment taxes; and making contri-
butions to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA.

Qualified state-declared disasters. The Filing Relief
for Natural Disasters Act expanded the mandatory post-
ponement of certain tax deadlines for disasters declared
after July 24, 2025, by the governor of the impacted state.
This provision may also be applied to impacted areas
within the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth
of the North Mariana Islands.

If any tax deadline is postponed, the IRS will publicize
the postponement in your area and publish a news re-
lease and, where necessary, in a revenue ruling, revenue
procedure, notice, announcement, or other guidance in
the Internal Revenue Bulletin (IRB). Go to IRS.gov/
DisasterTaxRelief to find out if a tax deadline has been
postponed for your area.

Who is eligible. If the IRS postpones a tax deadline, the
following taxpayers are eligible for the postponement.

• Any individual whose main home is located in a cov-

ered disaster area (defined later).

• Any business entity or sole proprietor whose principal
place of business is located in a covered disaster
area.

• Any individual who is a relief worker affiliated with a

recognized government or philanthropic organization
and who is assisting in a covered disaster area.

• Any individual, business entity, or sole proprietorship
whose records are needed to meet a postponed tax
deadline, provided those records are maintained in a
covered disaster area. The main home or principal
place of business doesn’t have to be located in the
covered disaster area.

Publication 547 (2025)

27
Adjustments to Basis

If you have a casualty or theft loss, you must decrease
your basis in the property by any insurance or other reim-
bursement you receive and by any deductible loss. The
result is your adjusted basis in the property.

If you make either of the basis adjustments described
above, amounts you spend on repairs that restore the
property to its pre-casualty condition increase your adjus-
ted basis. Don’t increase your basis in the property by any
qualified disaster mitigation payments (discussed earlier
under Disaster Area Losses). See Adjusted Basis in Pub.
551 for more information on adjustments to basis.

If Deductions Are More Than Income

If your casualty or theft loss deduction causes your deduc-
tions for the year to be more than your income for the year,
you may have a net operating loss (NOL). Generally, you
can use an NOL to lower your tax in a later year. You don’t
have to be in business to have an NOL from a casualty or
theft loss. For more information, see the Instructions for
Form 172.

How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-
come.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your

e-filing software.

Publication 547 (2025)

29
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-

fessionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online ac-
count, you can access a variety of information to help you
during the filing season. You can get a transcript, review
your most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted
gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to re-
ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
IRS.gov/
you don’t have a bank account, go
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.

to

Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-
phone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-
nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are
six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-
vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
vents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

vice to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire

refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electroni-
cally are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following op-
tions.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s
free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-

dress listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at

a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive im-
mediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if
you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for in-
formation and updates.

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amen-
ded returns.

Publication 547 (2025)

31

!

CAUTION