Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Contents

Publication 529
(Rev. December 2020)
Cat. No. 15056O

Miscellaneous
Deductions

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (TiếngViệt)

Jan 04, 2021

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Deductions for Unreimbursed Employee

Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Unreimbursed Employee Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Expenses You Can’t Deduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Miscellaneous Deductions Subject to the 2%

AGI Limit

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Nondeductible Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Expenses You Can Deduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

How To Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Reminders
Future developments. For the latest information about
developments related to Pub. 529, such as legislation
enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub529.

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
ges that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recog-
nize a child.

Introduction
This publication explains that you can no longer claim any
miscellaneous itemized deductions, unless you fall into
one of the qualified categories of employment claiming a
deduction relating to unreimbursed employee expenses.
Miscellaneous itemized deductions are those deductions
that would have been subject
the 2%-of-adjus-
ted-gross-income (AGI) limitation. You can still claim cer-
tain expenses as itemized deductions on Schedule A
(Form 1040), Schedule A (1040-NR), or as an adjustment
to income on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. This publication
covers the following topics.

to

• Deductions for Unreimbursed Employee Expenses.
• Expenses you can't deduct.
• Expenses you can deduct.
• How to report your deductions.

Note. Generally, nonresident aliens who fall into one of
the qualified categories of employment are allowed de-
ductions to the extent they are directly related to income
component of the Armed Forces of the United States and
you travel more than 100 miles away from home in con-
nection with your performance of services as a member of
the reserves, you can deduct some of your travel expen-
ses as an adjustment to gross income. The amount of ex-
penses you can deduct as an adjustment to gross income
is limited to the regular federal per diem rate (for lodging,
meals, and incidental expenses) and the standard mile-
age rate (for car expenses) plus any parking fees, ferry
fees, and tolls. The balance, if any, is reported on Sched-
ule A.

For more information on travel expenses, see Pub.

463.

Qualified performing artist. You are a qualified per-
forming artist if you:

1. Performed services in the performing arts as an em-
ployee for at least two employers during the tax year,

2. Received from at least two of the employers wages of

$200 or more per employer,

3. Had allowable business expenses attributable to the
performing arts of more than 10% of gross income
from the performing arts, and

4. Had adjusted gross income of $16,000 or less before

deducting expenses as a performing artist.

If you are a qualified performing artist, you can deduct
your employee business expenses as an adjustment to in-
come rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.
For example, musicians and entertainers can deduct the
cost of theatrical clothing and accessories that aren't suit-
able for everyday wear. If you are an employee, complete
Form 2106. See Pub. 463 for more information.

Fee-basis state or local government official. You are
a qualifying fee-basis official if you are employed by a
state or political subdivision of a state and are compensa-
ted, in whole or in part, on a fee basis.

If you are a fee-basis official, you can claim your expen-
ses in performing services in that job as an adjustment to
income rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduc-
tion. See Pub. 463 for more information.

Employee with impairment-related work expenses.
Impairment-related work expenses are the allowable ex-
penses of an individual with physical or mental disabilities
for attendant care at his or her place of employment. They
also include other expenses in connection with the place
of employment that enable the employee to work. See
Pub. 463 for more details.

If you have a physical or mental disability that limits
your being employed, or substantially limits one or more of
your major life activities, such as performing manual
tasks, walking, speaking, breathing, learning, and work-
ing, you can deduct your impairment-related work expen-
ses.

Impairment-related work expenses are ordinary and
necessary business expenses for attendant care services
at your place of work and other expenses in connection

with your place of work that are necessary for you to be
able to work.

Educator Expenses

If you were an eligible educator for the tax year, you may
be able to deduct qualified expenses you paid as an ad-
justment to gross income on your Schedule 1 (Form
1040), rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.
See the Instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR for
more information.

Eligible educator. An eligible educator is a kindergarten
through grade 12 teacher, instructor, counselor, principal,
or aide in school for at least 900 hours during a school
year.

Qualified expenses. Qualified expenses include ordi-
nary and necessary expenses paid in connection with
books, supplies, equipment (including computer equip-
ment, software, and services), and other materials used in
the classroom. An ordinary expense is one that is com-
mon and accepted in your educational field. A necessary
expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your
profession as an educator. An expense doesn’t have to be
required to be considered necessary.

Qualified expenses also include those expenses you
incur while participating in professional development cour-
ses related to the curriculum in which you provide instruc-
tion. It also includes those expenses related to those stu-
dents for whom you provide that instruction.

Qualified expenses don’t include expenses for home
schooling or for nonathletic supplies for courses in health
or physical education. You must reduce your qualified ex-
penses by the following amounts.

• Excludable U.S. series EE and I savings bond interest

from Form 8815.

• Nontaxable qualified state tuition program earnings.
• Nontaxable earnings from Coverdell education sav-

ings accounts.

• Any reimbursements you received for those expenses
that weren’t reported to you on your Form W-2, box 1.

Expenses You Can’t Deduct

In addition to the expenses that are no longer deductible
as a miscellaneous itemized deduction, there are expen-
ses that are traditionally nondeductible under the Internal
Revenue Code. Both categories of deduction are dis-
cussed next.

Publication 529 (December 2020)

Page 3
Trustee's Administrative Fees for IRA

Trustee's administrative fees that are billed separately and
paid by you in connection with your IRA are a miscellane-
ous itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted.

Nondeductible Expenses

In addition to the miscellaneous itemized deductions dis-
cussed earlier, you can't deduct the following expenses.

List of Nondeductible Expenses

• Adoption expenses.
• Broker's commissions.
• Burial or funeral expenses, including the cost of a

cemetery lot.

• Campaign expenses.
• Capital expenses.
• Check-writing fees.
• Club dues.
• Commuting expenses.
• Fees and licenses, such as car licenses, marriage li-

censes, and dog tags.

• Fines or penalties.
• Health spa expenses.
• Hobby losses—but see Hobby Expenses, earlier.
• Home repairs, insurance, and rent.
• Home security system.
• Illegal bribes and kickbacks—see Bribes and kick-

backs in chapter 11 of Pub. 535.

• Investment-related seminars.
• Life insurance premiums paid by the insured.
• Lobbying expenses.
• Losses from the sale of your home, furniture, personal

car, etc.

• Lost or misplaced cash or property.
• Lunches with co-workers.
• Meals while working late.
• Medical expenses as business expenses other than
medical examinations required by your employer.

• Personal disability insurance premiums.
• Personal legal expenses.
• Personal, living, or family expenses.
• Political contributions.
• Professional accreditation fees.
• Professional reputation improvement expenses.
• Relief fund contributions.
• Residential telephone line.

• Stockholders’ meeting attendance expenses.
• Tax-exempt income earning/collecting expenses.
• The value of wages never received or lost vacation

time.

• Travel expenses for another individual.
• Voluntary unemployment benefit fund contributions.
• Wristwatches.

Adoption Expenses

You can't deduct the expenses of adopting a child but you
may be able to take a credit for those expenses. For de-
tails, see Form 8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses.

Commissions

Commissions paid on the purchase of securities aren't de-
ductible, either as business or nonbusiness expenses. In-
stead, these fees must be added to the taxpayer's cost of
the securities. Commissions paid on the sale are deducti-
ble as business expenses only by dealers.

Campaign Expenses

You can't deduct campaign expenses of a candidate for
any office, even if the candidate is running for reelection to
the office. These include qualification and registration fees
for primary elections.

Legal fees. You can't deduct legal fees paid to defend
charges that arise from participation in a political cam-
paign.

Capital Expenses

You can't currently deduct amounts paid to buy property
that has a useful life substantially beyond the tax year or
amounts paid to increase the value or prolong the life of
property. If you use such property in your work, you may
be able to take a depreciation deduction. See Pub. 946. If
the property is a car used in your work, also see Pub. 463.

Check-Writing Fees on Personal Account

If you have a personal checking account, you can't deduct
fees charged by the bank for the privilege of writing
checks, even if the account pays interest.

Club Dues

Generally, you can't deduct the cost of membership in any
club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other
social purpose. This includes business, social, athletic,
luncheon, sporting, airline, hotel, golf, and country clubs.

You can't deduct dues paid to an organization if one of

its main purposes is to:
• Conduct entertainment activities for members or their

guests, or

Page 6

Publication 529 (December 2020)
Excess Deductions of an Estate or Trust

Generally, if an estate or trust has an excess deduction re-
sulting from total deductions being greater than its gross
income, in the estate’s or trust's last tax year, a beneficiary
can deduct the excess deductions, depending on its char-
acter. The excess deductions retain their character as an
adjustment to arrive at adjusted gross income on Sched-
ule 1 (Form 1040), as a non-miscellaneous itemized de-
duction reported on Schedule A (Form 1040), or as a mis-
cellaneous itemized deduction. For more information on
excess deductions of an estate or trust, see the Instruc-
tions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) for a Beneficiary Filing
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

Federal Estate Tax on Income in Respect of
a Decedent

You can deduct the federal estate tax attributable to in-
come in respect of a decedent that you as a beneficiary
include in your gross income. Income in respect of the de-
cedent is gross income that the decedent would have re-
ceived had death not occurred and that wasn't properly in-
cludible in the decedent's final income tax return. See
Pub. 559 for information about figuring the amount of this
deduction.

Fines or Penalties

Generally, a deduction is allowed for fines and penalties
paid to a government or specified nongovernmental entity
for the violation of any law in the following situations.
• Certain amounts that constitute restitution.
• Certain amounts paid to come into compliance with

the law.

• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of certain court
orders in which no government or specified nongo-
vernmental agency is a party.

• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.

Nondeductible amounts include an amount paid in set-
tlement of your actual or potential liability for a fine or pen-
alty (civil or criminal). Fines or penalties include amounts
paid such as parking tickets, tax penalties, and penalties
deducted from teachers' paychecks after an illegal strike.

No deduction is allowed for the restitution amount or
amount paid to come into compliance with the law unless
the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement
agreement or court order. Also, any amount paid or incur-
red as reimbursement to the government for the costs of
any investigation or litigation are nondeductible.

Gambling Losses Up to the Amount of
Gambling Winnings

You must report the full amount of your gambling winnings
for the year on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040). You deduct
your gambling losses for the year on your Schedule A
(Form 1040). Gambling losses include the actual cost of

wagers plus expenses incurred in connection with the
conduct of the gambling activity, such as travel to and
from a casino. You can't deduct gambling losses that are
more than your winnings. Generally, nonresident aliens
can't deduct gambling losses on your Schedule A (Form
1040-NR).

You can't reduce your gambling winnings by your
gambling losses and report the difference. You
must report the full amount of your winnings as in-
come and claim your losses (up to the amount of win-
nings) as an itemized deduction. Therefore, your records
should show your winnings separately from your losses.

Diary of winnings and losses. You must keep
an accurate diary or similar record of your losses
and winnings.

Your diary should contain at least the following informa-
tion.

• The date and type of your specific wager or wagering

activity.

• The name and address or location of the gambling es-

tablishment.

• The names of other persons present with you at the

gambling establishment.

• The amount(s) you won or lost.

Proof of winnings and losses. In addition to your diary,
you should also have other documentation. You can gen-
erally prove your winnings and losses through Form
W-2G, Certain Gambling Winnings; Form 5754, State-
ment by Person(s) Receiving Gambling Winnings; wager-
ing tickets; canceled checks; substitute checks; credit re-
cords; bank withdrawals; and statements of actual
winnings or payment slips provided to you by the gam-
bling establishment.

For specific wagering transactions, you can use the fol-

lowing items to support your winnings and losses.

These recordkeeping suggestions are intended
as general guidelines to help you establish your
winnings and losses. They aren't all-inclusive.
Your tax liability depends on your particular facts and cir-
cumstances.

Keno. Copies of the keno tickets you purchased that
were validated by the gambling establishment, copies of
your casino credit records, and copies of your casino
check-cashing records.

Slot machines. A record of the machine number and

all winnings by date and time the machine was played.

(twenty-one

Table games

(blackjack), craps,
poker, baccarat, roulette, wheel of fortune, etc.). The
number of the table at which you were playing. Casino
credit card data indicating whether the credit was issued
in the pit or at the cashier's cage.

Bingo. A record of the number of games played, cost
of tickets purchased, and amounts collected on winning

Page 10

Publication 529 (December 2020)

!

CAUTION

RECORDS

!

CAUTION