Publication 541
(Rev. December 2025)

Partnerships

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Reminder
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Reve-
nue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
1-800-THE-LOST
and
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

calling

Introduction
This publication provides supplemental federal income tax
information for partnerships and partners. It supplements
the information provided in the Instructions for Form 1065,
U.S. Return of Partnership Income; the Partner’s Instruc-
tions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of In-
come, Deductions, Credits, etc.; and the instructions for
Schedule K-2 and Schedule K-3 (Form 1065). Generally,
a partnership doesn’t pay tax on its income but passes
through any profits or losses to its partners. Partners must
include partnership items on their tax returns.

For a discussion of business expenses a partnership
can deduct, see the 2022 version of Pub. 535, Business
Expenses, at Publication 535, Business Expenses (2022).
Partnerships can’t deduct depletion on oil and gas wells.
Each partner must determine the allowable amount to re-
port on their return. As such, members of oil and gas part-
nerships should read about the deduction for depletion in
chapter 9 of that publication.

Each partnership must designate a partnership repre-
sentative unless the partnership has made a valid election
out of the centralized partnership audit regime. See Desig-
nated Partnership Representative (PR) in the Form 1065
instructions and Regulations section 301.6223-1.

Withholding on foreign partner or firm. A partnership
that has foreign partners or engages in certain transac-
tions with foreign persons may have one (or more) of the
following obligations.

Fixed or determinable annual or periodical (FDAP)
income. A partnership may have to withhold tax on distri-
butions to a foreign partner or a foreign partner’s distribu-
tive share when it earns income not effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business. A partnership may also have
to withhold on payments to a foreign person of FDAP in-
come not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or busi-
ness. See section 1441 or 1442 for more information.

Withholding under the Foreign Investment in Real
Property Tax Act (FIRPTA). If a partnership acquires a
U.S. real property interest from a foreign person or firm,
the partnership may have to withhold tax on the amount it
pays for the property (including cash, the fair market value
(FMV) of other property, and any assumed liability). See
section 1445 for more information.

Dec 18, 2025

Publication 541 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 15071D
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Withholding on foreign partner’s effectively con­
nected taxable income (ECTI). If a partnership has in-
come effectively connected with a trade or business in the
United States (including gain on the disposition of a U.S.
real property interest), it must withhold on the ECTI alloca-
ble to its foreign partners. See section 1446(a) for more in-
formation.

Withholding on foreign partner’s sale of a partner­
ship interest. A purchaser of a partnership interest,
which may include the partnership itself, may have to with-
hold tax on the amount realized by a foreign partner on the
sale for that partnership interest if the partnership is en-
gaged in a trade or business in the United States. See
section 1446(f) for more information.

Withholding under the Foreign Account Tax Com­
pliance Act (FATCA). A partnership may have to with-
hold tax on distributions to a foreign partner of a foreign
partner’s distributive share when it earns withholdable
payments. A partnership may also have to withhold on
withholdable payments that it makes to a foreign entity.
See sections 1471 through 1474 for more information. A
partnership that has a duty to withhold but fails to withhold
may be held liable for the tax, applicable penalties, and in-
terest. See section 1461 for more information.

For more information on withholding on nonresident ali-

ens and foreign entities, see Pub. 515.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through

Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Additional forms. A list of other forms and statements
that a partnership may need to file is included at the end

of this publication. Also, see the instructions for the part-
nership’s tax return for additional forms and statements
that may be required.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

334

334 Tax Guide for Small Business

505

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax

515

515 Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and
Foreign Entities

537

537 Installment Sales

538

538 Accounting Periods and Methods

544

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets

551

551 Basis of Assets

925

925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules

946

946 How To Depreciate Property

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting publications and forms.

Forming a Partnership

The following sections contain general information about
partnerships.

Organizations Classified as
Partnerships

An unincorporated organization with two or more mem-
bers is generally classified as a partnership for federal tax
purposes if its members carry on a trade, business, finan-
cial operation, or venture and divide its profits. However, a
joint undertaking merely to share expenses is not a part-
nership. For example, co-ownership of property main-
tained and rented or leased is not a partnership unless the
co-owners provide services to the tenants.

The rules you must use to determine whether an organ-
ization is classified as a partnership changed for organiza-
tions formed after 1996.

Organizations formed after 1996. An organization
formed after 1996 is classified as a partnership for federal
tax purposes if it has two or more members and it is none
of the following.

• An organization formed under a federal or state law
that refers to it as incorporated or as a corporation,
body corporate, or body politic.

• An organization formed under a state law that refers to
it as a joint-stock company or joint-stock association.

• An insurance company.
• Certain banks.

2

Publication 541 (12-2025)