participation in the pension. See the example under Civil
service retirement, later. These rules may vary between
states. Check your state law.

Lump-sum distributions. If you were born before
January 2, 1936, and receive a lump-sum distribution from
a qualified retirement plan, you may be able to choose an
optional method of figuring the tax on the distribution. For
the 10-year tax option, you must disregard community
property laws. For more information, see Pub. 575, Pen-
sion and Annuity Income; and Form 4972, Tax on
Lump-Sum Distributions.

Civil service retirement. For income tax purposes,
community property laws apply to annuities payable under
the Civil Service Retirement Act (CSRS) or Federal Em-
ployee Retirement System (FERS).

Whether a civil service annuity is separate or commun-
ity income depends on your marital status (or registered
domestic partnership) and domicile of the employee when
the services were performed for which the annuity is paid.
Even if you now live in a noncommunity property state and
you receive a civil service annuity, it may be community in-
come if it is based on services you performed while mar-
ried (or during the registered domestic partnership) and
domiciled in a community property state.

If a civil service annuity is a mixture of community in-
come and separate income, it must be divided between
the two kinds of income. The division is based on the em-
ployee's domicile and marital status (or registered domes-
tic partnership) in community and noncommunity property
states during his or her periods of service.

Example. Henry Wright retired this year after 30 years
of civil service. He and his spouse were domiciled in a
community property state during the past 15 years.

Because half the service was performed while the
Wrights were married and domiciled in a community prop-
erty state, half the civil service retirement pay is consid-
ered to be community income. If Mr. Wright receives
$1,000 a month in retirement pay, $500 is considered
community income—half ($250) is his income and half
($250) is his spouse's.

Military retirement pay. State community property
laws apply to military retirement pay. Generally, the pay is
either separate or community income based on the marital
status and domicile of the couple while the member of the
Armed Forces was in active military service. For example,
military retirement pay for services performed during mar-
riage and domicile in a community property state is com-
munity income.

Active military pay earned while married and domiciled
in a community property state is also community income.
This income is considered to be received half by the mem-
ber of the Armed Forces and half by the spouse.

Partnership income. If an interest is held in a partner-
ship, and income from the partnership is attributable to the
efforts of either spouse (or RDP), the partnership income
is community property. If it is a separate property partner-
ship and the income from the partnership isn't attributable
to the efforts of either spouse (or RDP), the partnership in-

come will be characterized in accordance with the discus-
sion under Income from separate property, later.

Tax-exempt income. For spouses, community income
exempt from federal tax generally keeps its exempt status
for both spouses. For example, under certain circumstan-
ces, income earned outside the United States is tax ex-
empt. If you earned income and met the conditions that
made it exempt, the income is also exempt for your
spouse even though he or she may not have met the con-
ditions. RDPs should consult the particular exclusion pro-
vision to see if the exempt status applies to both.

Income from separate property. In some states, in-
come from separate property is separate income. These
states include Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico,
and Washington. Other states characterize income from
separate property as community income. These states in-
clude Idaho, Louisiana, Texas, and Wisconsin.

Deductions

If you file separate returns, your deductions generally de-
pend on whether the expenses involve community or sep-
arate income.

Business and investment expenses. Investment ex-
penses for the production of income, deductible under
section 212 of the Internal Revenue Code, are suspended
until 2025. However, the suspension does not apply to
business expense deductions under section 162 of the
Code.

If you file separate returns, expenses incurred to earn
or produce community business or investment income are
generally divided equally between you and your spouse
(or your RDP). Each of you is entitled to deduct one-half of
the expenses on your separate returns. Expenses incur-
red by a spouse (or RDP) to produce separate business or
investment income is deductible by the spouse (or the
RDP) who earns the corresponding separate business or
investment income.

Other limits may also apply to business and investment
expenses. For more information, see chapter 8 of Pub.
334, Tax Guide for Small Business; and Pub. 550, Invest-
ment Income and Expenses.

Payments not alimony. Prior to the enactment of the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) rules, payments that may other-
wise qualify as alimony or separate maintenance aren’t
deductible by the payer if they are the recipient spouse’s
part of community income. See Example 1 below. Also
see Alimony received, earlier.

Example 1—pre-TCJA (old rule). You live in a com-
munity property state. You are separated but the special
rules explained later under Spouses living apart all year
don't apply. Under a court order of separation executed on
November 1, 2018, you pay your spouse as support
$12,000 of your $20,000 total yearly community income.
Your spouse receives no other community income. Under
your state law, earnings of a spouse living separately and

6

Publication 555 (12-2024)
include it in your gross income on your income tax return.
Your earned income includes the entire amount you
earned, even if part of it is treated as belonging to your
spouse under your state's community property laws. The
same rule applies to RDPs.

This rule doesn't apply when determining your ad-
justed gross income (AGI) for the EIC. Your AGI
includes that part of both your and your spouse's
(or your RDP’s) wages that you are required to include in
the gross income shown on your tax return.

For more information about the EIC, see Pub. 596,

Earned Income Credit.

Overpayments. The amount of an overpayment on a
joint return is allocated under the community property laws
of the state in which you are domiciled.
• If, under the laws of your state, community property is
subject to premarital or other separate debts of either
spouse, the full joint overpayment may be used to off-
set the obligation.

• If, under the laws of your state, community property

isn't subject to premarital or other separate debts of ei-
ther spouse, only the portion of the joint overpayment
allocated to the spouse liable for the obligation can be
used to offset that liability. The portion allocated to the
other spouse can be refunded.

Community Property Laws
Disregarded

The following discussions are situations where special
rules apply to community property and community income
for spouses. These rules don't apply to RDPs.

Certain community income not treated as community
income by one spouse. Community property laws may
not apply to an item of community income that you re-
ceived but didn't treat as community income. You are re-
sponsible for reporting all of that income item if:

1. You treat the item as if only you are entitled to the in-

come, and

2. You don't notify your spouse of the nature and amount
of the income by the due date for filing the return (in-
cluding extensions).

Relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of
community income. You aren't responsible for the tax
relating to an omitted item of community income if all the
following conditions are met.

1. You didn't file a joint return for the tax year.

2. You didn't include the item of community income in

gross income.

3. The item of community income you didn't include in

your gross income is one of the following.

a. Wages, salaries, and other compensation your

spouse (or former spouse) received for services
he or she performed as an employee.

b. Income your spouse (or former spouse) derived
from a trade or business he or she operated as a
sole proprietor.

c. Your spouse's (or former spouse's) distributive

share of partnership income.

d. Income from your spouse's (or former spouse's)

separate property (other than income described in
(a), (b), or (c)). Use the appropriate community
property law to determine what is separate prop-
erty.

e. Any other income that belongs to your spouse (or
former spouse) under community property law.

4. You establish that you didn't know of, and had no rea-

son to know of, that community income.

5. Under all facts and circumstances, it wouldn't be fair

to include the item of community income in your gross
income.

Requesting relief. For information on how and when
to request relief from liabilities arising from community
property laws, see Community Property Laws in Pub. 971.

Equitable relief. If you don't qualify for the relief dis-
cussed earlier under Relief from liability for tax attributable
to an item of community income and are now liable for an
underpaid or understated tax you believe should be paid
only by your spouse (or former spouse), you may request
equitable relief. To request equitable relief, you must file
Form 8857. Also see Pub. 971.

Spousal agreements. In some states, a married couple
may enter into an agreement that affects the status of
property or income as community or separate property.
Check your state law to determine how it affects you.

Nonresident alien spouse. If you are a U.S. citizen or
resident alien and you choose to treat your nonresident
alien spouse as a U.S. resident for tax purposes and you
are domiciled in a community property state or country,
use the community property rules. You must file a joint re-
turn for the year you make the choice. You can file sepa-
rate returns in later years. For details on making this
choice, see Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.

If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien and don't
choose to treat your nonresident alien spouse as a U.S.
resident for tax purposes, treat your community income as
explained next under Spouses living apart all year. How-
ever, you don't have to meet the four conditions discussed
there.

Spouses living apart all year. If you are married at any
time during the calendar year, special rules apply for re-
porting certain community income. You must meet all the
following conditions for these special rules to apply.

1. You and your spouse lived apart all year.

8

Publication 555 (12-2024)

!

CAUTION