Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Contents

Publication 556
(Rev. September 2013)
Cat. No. 15104N

Examination
of Returns,
Appeal Rights,
and Claims for
Refund

Get forms and other Information
faster and easier by:
Internet IRS.gov

Sep 26, 2013

The IRS Mission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Examination of Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Appeal Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

Claims for Refund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

The IRS Mission
Provide America's taxpayers top quality service by helping
them understand and meet their tax responsibilities and
by applying the tax law with integrity and fairness to all.

Reminders
Penalty for filing erroneous claim for refund or
credit. You may have to pay a penalty if you file an erro-
neous claim for refund or credit. See Penalty for errone­
ous claim for refund, later under Claims for Refund.

Interest and penalties suspended if notice not mailed
within 36 months. If you file your return timely (including
extensions), interest and certain penalties will be suspen-
ded if the IRS does not mail a notice to you within 36
months. See Suspension of interest and penalties, later
under Examination of Returns.

Fast track mediation. The IRS offers fast track media-
tion services to help taxpayers resolve many disputes re-
sulting from:

Examinations (audits),

Offers in compromise,

Trust fund recovery penalties, and

Other collection actions.

See Fast track mediation under If You Do Not Agree.

Introduction
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) accepts most federal
tax returns as filed. However, the IRS examines (or audits)
some returns to determine if income, expenses, and cred-
its are being reported accurately.

If your return is selected for examination, it does not
suggest that you made an error or are dishonest. Returns
are chosen by computerized screening, by random sam-
ple, or by an income document matching program. See
Examination selection criteria, later. You should also know
that many examinations result in a refund or acceptance
of the tax return without change.

This publication discusses general rules and proce-
dures that the IRS follows in examinations. It explains
what happens during an examination and your appeal
rights, both within the IRS and in the federal court system.
It also explains how to file a claim for refund of tax you al-
ready paid.

As a taxpayer, you have the right to be treated fairly,
professionally, promptly, and courteously by IRS employ-
ees. Publication 1, Your Rights as a Taxpayer, explains
your rights when dealing with the IRS.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and your suggestions for fu-
ture editions.

You can write to us at the following address:

1546

Taxpayer Advocate Service–Your Voice at the
IRS

1660

Collection Appeal Rights

3605

Fast Track Mediation

3920

Tax Relief for Victims of Terrorist Attacks

4134

Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List

Form (and Instructions)

843

Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement

911

Request for Taxpayer Advocate Service
Assistance (and Application for Taxpayer
Assistance Order)

1040X

Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return

Internal Revenue Service
Tax Forms and Publications Division
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
Washington, DC 20224

We respond to many letters by telephone. Therefore, it
would be helpful if you would include your daytime phone
number, including the area code, in your correspondence.
You can send your comments from www.irs.gov/
formspubs/. Click on “More Information” and then on
“Comment on Tax Forms and Publications.”

Although we cannot respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments as we revise our tax products.

Ordering forms and publications. Visit www.irs.gov/
formspubs to download forms and publications, call
1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676), or write to the ad-
dress below and receive a response within 10 days after
your request is received.

Internal Revenue Service
1201 N. Mitsubishi Motorway
Bloomington, IL 61704-6613

Tax questions. If you have a tax question, check the
call
information
1-800-829-1040. We cannot answer tax questions sent to
either of the above addresses.

on www.irs.gov

available

or

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

1

5

Your Rights as a Taxpayer

Your Appeal Rights and How To Prepare a
Protest If You Don't Agree

547

Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts

594

The IRS Collection Process

910

Guide to Free Tax Services

971

Innocent Spouse Relief

2848

Power of Attorney and Declaration of
Representative

4506

Request for Copy of Tax Return

4506-T

Request for Transcript of Tax Return

8379

Injured Spouse Allocation

8857

Request for Innocent Spouse Relief

See How To Get Tax Help, near the end of this publica-
tion, for information about getting these publications and
forms.

Examination of Returns

Your return may be examined for a variety of reasons, and
the examination may take place in any one of several
ways. After the examination, if any changes to your tax
are proposed, you can either agree with those changes
and pay any additional tax you may owe, or you can disa-
gree with the changes and appeal the decision.

Examination selection criteria. Your return may be se-
lected for examination on the basis of computer scoring. A
computer program called the Discriminant Inventory Func-
tion System (DIF) assigns a numeric score to each individ-
ual and some corporate tax returns after they have been
processed. If your return is selected because of a high
score under the DIF system, the potential is high that an
examination of your return will result in a change to your
income tax liability.

Your return may also be selected for examination on
the basis of information received from third-party docu-
mentation, such as Forms 1099 and W-2, that does not
match the information reported on your return. Or, your re-
turn may be selected to address both the questionable
treatment of an item and to study the behavior of similar
taxpayers (a market segment) in handling a tax issue.

In addition, your return may be selected as a result of
information received from other sources on potential non-
compliance with the tax laws or inaccurate filing. This in-
formation can come from a number of sources, including

Page 2

Publication 556 (September 2013)
newspapers, public records, and individuals. The informa-
tion is evaluated for reliability and accuracy before it is
used as the basis of an examination or investigation.

Call 1-888-734-3247.

Send an email to ombudsman@sba.gov.

Notice of IRS contact of third parties. The IRS must
give you reasonable notice before contacting other per-
sons about your tax matters. You must be given reasona-
ble notice in advance that, in examining or collecting your
tax liability, the IRS may contact third parties such as your
neighbors, banks, employers, or employees. The IRS
must also give you notice of specific contacts by providing
you with a record of persons contacted on both a periodic
basis and upon your request.

This provision does not apply:

To any pending criminal investigation,

When providing notice would jeopardize collection of
any tax liability,

Where providing notice may result in reprisal against
any person, or

When you authorized the contact.

Taxpayer Advocate Service. The Taxpayer Advocate
Service is an independent organization within the IRS
whose goal is to help taxpayers resolve problems with the
IRS. If you have an ongoing issue with the IRS that has
not been resolved through normal processes, or your
problems with the IRS are causing financial difficulty, con-
tact the Taxpayer Advocate Service.

Before contacting the Taxpayer Advocate Serv­
ice, you should first discuss any problem with a
supervisor. Your local Taxpayer Advocate will as­
sist you if you are unable to resolve the problem with the
supervisor.

For more information, see Publication 1546. See How
To Get Tax Help, near the end of this publication, for more
information about contacting the Taxpayer Advocate
Service.

Comments from small business. The Small Business
and Agricultural Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman
and 10 Regional Fairness Boards have been established
to receive comments from small business about federal
agency enforcement actions. The Ombudsman will annu-
ally evaluate the enforcement activities of each agency
and rate their responsiveness to small business. If you
wish to comment on the enforcement actions of the IRS,
you can take any of the following steps.

Fax your comments to 1-202-481-5719.

Write to the following address:
Office of the National Ombudsman
U.S. Small Business Administration
409 3rd Street, SW
Washington, DC 20416

File a comment or complaint online at www.sba.gov/
ombudsman.

If Your Return Is Examined

Some examinations are handled entirely by mail. Exami-
nations not handled by mail can take place in your home,
your place of business, an Internal Revenue office, or the
office of your authorized representative. If the time, place,
or method is not convenient for you, the examiner will try
to work out something more suitable. However, the IRS
makes the final determination of when, where, and how
the examination will take place.

Throughout the examination, you can act on your own
behalf or have someone represent you or accompany
you. If you filed a joint return, either you or your spouse, or
both, can meet with the IRS. The person representing you
can be any federally authorized practitioner, including an
attorney, a certified public accountant, an enrolled agent
(a person enrolled to practice before the IRS), an enrolled
actuary, or the person who prepared the return and signed
it as the preparer.

If you want someone to represent you in your absence,
you must furnish that person with proper written authoriza-
tion. You can use Form 2848 or any other properly written
authorization. If you want to consult with an attorney, a
certified public accountant, an enrolled agent, or any other
person permitted to represent a taxpayer during an inter-
view for examining a tax return or collecting tax, you
should make arrangements with that person to be availa-
ble for the interview. In most cases, the IRS must suspend
the interview and reschedule it. The IRS cannot suspend
the interview if you are there because of an administrative
summons.

Third party authorization. If you checked the box in
the signature area of your income tax return (Form 1040,
Form 1040A, or Form 1040EZ) to allow the IRS to discuss
your return with another person (a third party designee),
this authorization does not replace Form 2848. The box
you checked on your return only authorizes the other per-
son to receive information about the processing of your re-
turn and the status of your refund during the period your
return is being processed. For more information, see the
instructions for your return.

Confidentiality privilege. Generally, the same confi-
dentiality protection that you have with an attorney also
applies to certain communications that you have with fed-
erally authorized practitioners.

Confidential communications are those that:

Advise you on tax matters within the scope of the
practitioner's authority to practice before the IRS,

Would be confidential between an attorney and you,
and

Relate to noncriminal tax matters before the IRS, or

Publication 556 (September 2013)

Page 3

!

CAUTION

TIP
30-day letter and 90-day letter. Within a few weeks af-
ter your closing conference with the examiner and/or su-
pervisor, you will receive a package with:

A letter (known as a 30-day letter) notifying you of
your right to appeal the proposed changes within 30
days,

A copy of the examination report explaining the exam-
iner's proposed changes,

An agreement or waiver form, and

A copy of Publication 5.

You generally have 30 days from the date of the 30-day
letter to tell the IRS whether you will accept or appeal the
proposed changes. The letter will explain what steps you
should take, depending on which action you choose. Be
sure to follow the instructions carefully. Appeal Rights are
explained later.

90-day letter. If you do not respond to the 30-day let-
ter, or if you later do not reach an agreement with an Ap-
peals Officer, the IRS will send you a 90-day letter, which
is also known as a notice of deficiency.

You will have 90 days (150 days if it is addressed to
you outside the United States) from the date of this notice
to file a petition with the Tax Court. Filing a petition with
the Tax Court is discussed later under Appeals to the
Courts and Tax Court.

The notice will show the 90th (or 150th) day by
which you must file your petition with the Tax
Court.

Suspension of interest and penalties. Generally, the
IRS has 3 years from the date you filed your return (or the
date the return was due, if later) to assess any additional
tax. However, if you file your return timely (including ex-
tensions), interest and certain penalties will be suspended
if the IRS does not mail a notice to you, stating your liabil-
ity and the basis for that liability, within a 36-month period
beginning on the later of:

The date on which you filed your tax return, or

The due date (without extensions) of your tax return.

If the IRS mails a notice after the 36-month period, interest
and certain penalties applicable to the suspension period
will be suspended.

The suspension period begins the day after the close of
the 36-month period and ends 21 days after the IRS mails
a notice to you stating your liability and the basis for that
liability. Also, the suspension period applies separately to
each notice stating your liability and the basis for that lia-
bility received by you.

The suspension does not apply to a:

Failure­to­pay penalty,

Fraudulent tax return,

Penalty, interest, addition to tax, or additional amount
with respect to any tax liability shown on your return or
with respect to any gross misstatement,

Penalty, interest, addition to tax, or additional amount
with respect to any reportable transaction that is not
adequately disclosed or any listed transaction, or

Criminal penalty.

Seeking relief from improperly assessed interest.
You can seek relief if interest is assessed for periods dur-
ing which interest should have been suspended because
the IRS did not mail a notice to you in a timely manner.

If you believe that interest was assessed with respect
to a period during which interest should have been sus-
pended, submit Form 843, writing “Section 6404(g) Notifi-
cation” at the top of the form, with the IRS Service Center
where you filed your return. The IRS will review the Form
843 and notify you whether interest will be abated. If the
IRS does not abate interest, you can pay the disputed in-
terest assessment and file a claim for refund. If your claim
is denied or not acted upon within 6 months from the date
you filed it, you can file suit for a refund in your United
States District Court or in the United States Court of Fed-
eral Claims.

If you believe that an IRS officer or employee has made
an unreasonable error or delay in performing a ministerial
or managerial act (discussed later under Abatement of In­
terest Due to Error or Delay by the IRS), file Form 843 with
the IRS Service Center where you filed the tax return. If
the IRS denies your claim, the Tax Court may be able to
review that determination. See Tax Court can review fail­
ure to abate interest later under Abatement of Interest Due
to Error or Delay by the IRS.

If you later agree. If you agree with the examiner's
changes after receiving the examination report or the
30-day letter, sign and return either the examination report
or the waiver form. Keep a copy for your records. You can
pay any additional amount you owe without waiting for a
bill. Include interest on the additional tax at the applicable
rate. This interest rate is usually for the period from the
due date of the return (excluding any extension of time to
file) to the date of payment. The examiner can tell you the
interest rate(s) or help you figure the amount.

You must pay interest on penalties and additions to tax
for failing to file returns, for overstating valuations, for un-
derstating valuations on estate and gift tax returns, and for
substantially understating tax liability. Interest is generally
figured from the date (including extensions) the tax return
is required to be filed to the date you pay the penalty
and/or additions to tax.

If you pay the amount due within 10 business days after
the date of notice and demand for immediate payment,
you will not have to pay any additional penalties and inter-
est. This period is extended to 21 calendar days if the
amount due is less than $100,000.

Publication 556 (September 2013)

Page 5

TIP

!

CAUTION
You must also meet the remaining requirements, including
the exhaustion of administrative remedies and the net
worth requirement, discussed earlier, to get the benefit of
the qualified offer rule.

Qualified offer. This is a written offer made by you
during the qualified offer period. It must specify both the
offered amount of your liability (not including interest) and
that it is a qualified offer.

To be a qualified offer, it must remain open from the

date it is made until the earliest of:

The date it is rejected,

The date the trial begins, or

90 days from the date it is made.

Qualified offer period. This period begins on the day
the IRS mails you the first letter of proposed deficiency
that allows you to request review by the IRS Office of Ap-
peals. It ends 30 days before your case is first set for trial.

Attorney fees. Attorney fees generally may not ex-
ceed $125 maximum hourly rate as set by statute and in-
dexed for inflation. However, this amount can be higher in
certain limited circumstances depending on the level of
difficulty of the issues in the case and the local availability
of tax expertise. See IRS.gov for more information.

Attorney fees include the fees paid by a taxpayer
for the services of anyone who is authorized to
practice before the Tax Court or before the IRS.
In addition, attorney fees can be awarded in civil actions
for unauthorized inspection or disclosure of a taxpayer's
return or return information.

Fees can be awarded in excess of the actual amount

charged if:

You are represented for no fee, or for a nominal fee,
as a pro bono service, and

The award is paid to your representative or to your
representative's employer.

Jurisdiction for determination of employment status.
The Tax Court can review IRS employment status deter-
minations (for example, whether individuals hired by you
are in fact your employees or independent contractors)
and the amount of employment tax under such determina-
tions. Tax Court review can take place only if, in connec-
tion with an audit of any person, there is a controversy in-
volving a determination by the IRS that either:

One or more individuals performing services for that
person are employees of that person, or

That person is not entitled to relief under Section
530(a) of the Revenue Act of 1978(discussed later).

The following rules also apply to a Tax Court review of

employment status:

A Tax Court petition to review these determinations
can be filed only by the person for whom the services
are performed,

If you receive a Notice of Determination by certified or
registered mail, you must file a petition for Tax Court
review within 90 days of the date of mailing that notice
(150 days if the notice is addressed to you outside the
United States),

If during the Tax Court proceeding, you begin to treat
as an employee an individual whose employment sta-
tus is at issue, the Tax Court will not consider that
change in its decision,

Assessment and collection of tax is suspended while
the Tax Court review is taking place,

Payment of the asserted employment tax deficiency is
not required to petition the U.S. Tax Court for a deter-
mination of employment status.

There can be a de novo review by the Tax Court (a re-
view which does not consider IRS administrative find-
ings), and

At your request and with the Tax Court's agreement,
small tax case procedures (discussed later) are avail-
able to simplify the case resolution process when the
amount at issue (including additions to tax and penal-
ties) is $50,000 or less for each tax period involved.

For further information, see Publication 3953, Ques-
tions and Answers About Tax Court Proceedings for De-
termination of Employment Status Under IRC Section
7436.

Section 530(a) of the Revenue Act of 1978. This
section relieves an employer of certain employment tax
responsibilities for individuals not treated as employees. It
also provides relief to taxpayers under audit or involved in
administrative or judicial proceedings.

Tax Court review of request for relief from joint and
several liability on a joint return. As discussed later, at
Relief from joint and several liability on a joint return under
Claims for Refund, you can request relief from liability for
tax you owe, plus related penalties and interest, that you
believe should be paid by your spouse (or former spouse).
You also can petition (ask) the Tax Court to review your
request for innocent spouse relief or separation of liability
if either:

The IRS sends you a determination notice denying, in
whole or in part, your request, or

You do not receive a determination notice from the
IRS within 6 months from the date you file Form 8857.

If you receive a determination notice, you must petition
the Tax Court to review your request during the 90-day
period that begins on the date the IRS mails the notice.
See Publication 971 for more information.

Note. Your spouse or former spouse may file a written
protest and request an Appeals conference to protest
your claim of innocent spouse relief or separation of liabil-
ity. See Rev. Proc. 2003-19, which is on page 371 of the
Internal Revenue Bulletin 2003-5 at
www.irs.gov/pub/irs­irbs/irb03­05.pdf.

Publication 556 (September 2013)

Page 11

TIP