Statement of
Procedural Rules

Conference
and
Practice
Requirements

5

Sections 601.501 through 601.509
of Subpart E of Part 601 of Title
26 Code of Federal Regulations

Department
of the
Treasury
Internal
Revenue
Service

Publication 216 (Rev. 3-92)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents
U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402

Cat. No. 46290K
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUBPART E.-CONFERENCE AND PRACTICE REQUIREMENTS

601.501 Scope of Rules; definitions.
601.502 Recognized representative.
601.503 Requirements of power of attorney, signatures, fiduciaries and Commissioner's authority to substitute other

requirements

601.504 Requirements for filing power of attorney.
601.505 Revocation, change in representation and substitution or delegation of representative.
601.506 Notices to be given to recognized representatives; direct contact with taxpayer; delivery of a check drawn on

the United States Treasury to recognized representative.

601.507 Evidence required to substantiate facts alleged by a recognized representative.
601.508 Dispute between recognized representatives of a taxpayer.
601.509 Power of attorney not required in cases docketed in the Tax Court of the United States.

Subpart E-Conference and Practice
Requirements

§601.501 Scope of rules; definitions.

(a) Scope of rules. The rules prescribed in this subpart
concern, among other things, the representation of tax-
payers before the Internal Revenue Service under the
authority of a power of attorney. These rules apply to all
offices of the Internal Revenue Service in all matters
under the jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service
and apply to practice before the Internal Revenue
Service (as defined in 31 CFR 10.2(a) and 10.7(a)(7)).
For special provisions relating to alcohol, tobacco, and
fire- arms activities, see §§601.521 through 601.527.
These rules detail the means by which a recognized
representative is authorized to act on behalf of a
taxpayer. Such authority must be evidenced by a power
of attorney and declaration of representative filed with
the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service. In
general, a power of attorney must contain certain
information concerning the taxpayer, the recognized
representative, and the specific tax matter(s) for which
the recognized representative is authorized to act. (See
§601.503(a).) A ''declaration of representative'' is a
written statement made by a recognized representative
that he/she is currently eligible to practice before the
Internal Revenue Service and is au- thorized to represent
the particular party on whose behalf he/she acts. (See
§601.502(b).)

(b) Definitions (l) Attorney-in-fact. An agent autho-
rized by a principal under a power of attorney to per-
form certain specified act(s) or kinds of act(s) on behalf
of the principal.

(2) Centralized Authorization File (CAF) system. An
automated file containing information regarding the au-
thority of an individual appointed under a power of at-
torney or a person designated under a tax information
authorization.

(3) Circular No. 230. Treasury Department Circular
No. 230 (codified at 31 CFR Part 10) which sets forth
the regulations governing practice before the Internal
Revenue Service.

(4) Declaration of representative. (See §601.502(b).)
(5) Delegation of authority. An act performed by a
recognized representative whereby authority given under

a power of attorney is delegated to another recognized
representative. After a delegation is made, both the
original recognized representative and the recognized
representative to whom a delegation is made will be
recognized to represent the taxpayer. (See
§601.505(b)(2).)

(6) Form 2848, ''Power of Attorney and Declaration of
Representative.'' The Internal Revenue Service power of
attorney form which may be used by a taxpayer who
wishes to appoint an individual to represent him/her be-
fore the Internal Revenue Service. (See §601.503(b)(1).)

(7) Matter. The application of each tax imposed by the
Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder
for each taxable period constitutes a (separate) matter.
(8) Office of the Internal Revenue Service. The office
of each district director, the office of each service center,
the office of each compliance center, the office of each
regional commissioner, and the National Office
constitute separate offices of the Internal Revenue
Service.
(9) Power of attorney. A document signed by the tax-
payer, as principal, by which an individual is appointed
as attomey-in-fact to perform certain specified act(s) or
kinds of act(s) on behalf of the principal. Specific types
of powers of attorney include the following-

(i) General power of attorney. The attorney-in-fact is
authorized to perform any or all acts the taxpayer can
perform.
(ii) Durable power of attorney. A power of attorney
which specifies that the appointment of the attomey-in-
fact will not end due to either the passage of time (i.e.,
the authority conveyed will continue until the death of
the taxpayer) or the incompetency of the principal (e.g.,
the principal becomes unable or is adjudged incompetent
to perform his/her business affairs).

(iii) Limited power of attorney. A power of attorney
which is limited in any facet (i.e., a power of attorney
authorizing the attorney -in -fact to perform only certain
specified acts as contrasted to a general power of
attorney authorizing the representative to perform any
and all acts the taxpayer can perform).

(10) Practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Practice before the Internal Revenue Service
encompasses all matters connected with presentation to
the Internal Revenue Service or any of its personnel
relating to a taxpayer's rights, privileges, or liabilities
under laws or regulations administered by the Internal
Revenue Service. Such presentations include the
preparation and filing of necessary documents,
correspondence with and communications to the Internal
Revenue Service, and the representation of a taxpayer at
conferences, hearings, and meetings.
(See 31 CFR 10.2(a).)
(11) Principal. A person (i.e., taxpayer) who appoints
an attomey-in-fact under a power of attorney.
(12) Recognized representative. An individual who is
recognized to practice before the Internal Revenue Ser-
vice under the provisions of §601.502.
(13) Representation. Acts performed on behalf of a
taxpayer by a representative in practice before the Inter-
nal Revenue Service. (See §601.501(b)(10).) However,
any person may prepare a tax return, may appear as a
witness for the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue
Service, or furnish information at the request of the
Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or
employees. (See 31 CFR 10.7(c).)

(14) Substitution of representative. An act performed
by an attomey-in-fact whereby authority given under a
power of attorney is transferred to another recognized
representative. After a substitution is made, only the
newly recognized representative will be considered the
tax- payer's representative. (See §601.505(b)(2).)
(15) Tax information authorization. A document
signed by the taxpayer authorizing any individual or
entity (e.g., corporation, partnership, trust or
organization) designated by the taxpayer to receive
and/or inspect confidential tax return information in a
specified matter. (See section 6103 of the Internal
Revenue Code and the regulations there-under.)
(c) Conferences--(I) Scheduling. The Internal Rev-
enue Service encourages the discussion of any Federal
tax matter affecting a taxpayer. Conferences may be of-
fered only to taxpayers and/or their recognized rep-
resentative(s) acting under a valid power of attorney. As
a general rule, such conferences will not be held without
previous arrangement. However, if a compelling reason
is shown by the taxpayer that an immediate conference
should be held, the Internal Revenue Service official(s)
responsible for the matter has the discretion to make an
exception to the general rule.
(2) Submission of information. Every written protest,
brief, or other statement the taxpayer or recognized rep-
resentative Wishes to be considered at any conference
should be submitted to or filed with the appropriate In-
ternal Revenue Service official(s) at least five business
days before the date of the conference. If the taxpayer
or the representative is unable to meet this requirement,
arrangement should be made with the appropriate In-
temal Revenue Service official for a postponement of
the conference to a date mutually agreeable to the par-
ties. The taxpayer or the representative remains free to
submit additional or supporting facts or evidence within
a reasonable time after the conference.

§601.502 Recognized representative.
A recognized representative is an individual who is
appointed as an attomey-in-fact under a power of attor-

2

ney and is a member of one of the categories described
in §601.502(a) and who files a declaration of representa-
tive, as described in §601.502(b).
(a) Categories (1) Attorney. Any individual who is a
member in good standing of the bar of the highest court
of any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the
District of Columbia;
(2) Certified public accountant. Any individual who is
duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant
in any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the
District of Columbia;
(3) Enrolled agent. Any individual who is enrolled to
practice before the Internal Revenue Service and is in
active status pursuant to the requirements of Circular
No. 230 (31 CFR Part 10);
(4) Enrolled actuary. Any individual who is enrolled
as an actuary by and is in active status with the Joint
Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries pursuant to 29
U.S.C. 1242.
(5) Other individuals. (i) Temporary recognition.
Any individual who is granted temporary recognition as
an enrolled agent by the Director of Practice (See 31
CFR 10.5(c).)
(ii) Practice based on a relationship or special status
with a taxpayer. Any individual authorized to represent a
taxpayer with whom/which a special relationship exists
(31 CFR 10.7(a)(1) through (6)). (For example, an indi-
vidual may represent another individual who is his/her
regular full-time employer or a member of his/her im-
mediate family; an individual who is a bona fide officer
or regular full-time employee of a corporation or certain
other organizations may represent that entity.)
(iii) Unenrolled return preparer. Any individual not
otherwise eligible to practice before the Internal Rev-
enue Service who signs a return as having prepared it for
a taxpayer, or who prepared a return with respect to
which the instructions or regulations do not require that
the return be signed by the preparer. The acts which an
unenrolled return preparer may perform are limited to
representation of a taxpayer before revenue agents and
examining officers of the Examination Division in the
offices of District Director with respect to the tax liabil-
ity of the taxpayer for the taxable year or period covered
by a return prepared by the unenrolled return preparer
(31 CFR 10.7(a)(7)).
(iv) Special appearance. Any individual who, upon
written application, is authorized by the Director of Prac
tice to represent a taxpayer in a particular matter (See
31CFR 10.7(b).)
(b) Declaration of representative. A recognized repre-
sentative must attach to the power of attorney a written
declaration (e.g., Part 11 of Form 2848) stating the fol-
lowing
(1) I am not currently under suspension or disbarment
from practice before the Internal Revenue Service;
(2) 1 am aware of the regulations contained in Treasury
Department Circular No. 230, (31 CFR Part 10),
concerning the practice of attorneys, certified public ac-
countants, enrolled agents, enrolled actuaries, and others);
(3) 1 am authorized to represent the taxpayer(s) identi-
fied in the power of attorney; and