2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

•

May be administered with or without food ( 2.1)

•

When used for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary ( 2.2)

Indication

Starting Dose

Dose Range

Hypertension ( 2.1)

40 mg once daily

40 to 80 mg once daily

Cardiovascular Risk Reduction ( 2.2)

80 mg once daily

80 mg once daily

2.1 Hypertension

Dosage must be individualized. The usual starting dose of telmisartan tablets is 40 mg once a day. Blood pressure response is dose-related over the range of 20 to 80 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)].

Most of the antihypertensive effect is apparent within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks.

No initial dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients or patients with renal impairment, including those on hemodialysis. Patients on dialysis may develop orthostatic hypotension; their blood pressure should be closely monitored.

Telmisartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents.

Telmisartan tablets may be administered with or without food.

2.2 Cardiovascular Risk Reduction

The recommended dose of telmisartan tablets is 80 mg once a day and can be administered with or without food. It is not known whether doses lower than 80 mg of telmisartan are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

When initiating telmisartan therapy for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

•

20 mg, white to off-white, uncoated round shaped tablets, flat with beveled edges, plain on one side and debossed “036” on other side.

•

40 mg, white to off-white, uncoated oval shaped tablets, biconvex with beveled edges, plain on one side and debossed “037” on other side.

•

80 mg, white to off-white, uncoated oval shaped tablets, biconvex with beveled edges, plain on one side and debossed “038” on other side.

•

Tablets: 20mg, 40mg, 80mg ( 3)