2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Recommended starting dose for patients 6 years and older: 10 mg once daily with or without food in the morning. Dosage may be increased weekly in increments of 10 mg per day. Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended. (2.1)
Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. (2.1)

2.1 Pretreatment Screening

Prior to treating patients with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules, assess:

for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions 5.2].
the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette's syndrome before initiating methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)].

2.2 Recommended Dosage

The recommended starting dose of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules in patients 6 years and older is 10 mg once daily orally in the morning with or without food. Advise patients to establish a routine pattern with regard to meals. The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient.

The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 10 mg. Daily doses above 60 mg have not been studied and are not recommended.

2.3 Administration Instructions

Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. If the patient is using the sprinkled administration method, the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately; it should not be stored. Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing. The dose of a single capsule should not be divided. The contents of the entire capsule should be taken, and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day.

2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation

If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur; the dosage should be reduced, or, if necessary, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules.

If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

10 mg Extended-Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body & light turquoise blue opaque cap containing white spherical beads. Body Imprinting: 910. Cap imprinting: RP
15 mg Extended-Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and orange cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 915. Cap imprinting: RP
20 mg Extended-Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and yellow opaque cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 920. Cap imprinting: RP
30 mg Extended-Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and blue violet cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 930. Cap imprinting: RP
40 mg Extended-Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and pink opaque cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 940. Cap imprinting: RP
50 mg Extended-Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and green opaque cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 950. Cap Imprinting: RP
60 mg Extended-Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules, white opaque body and gray opaque cap containing white spherical beads. Body imprinting: 960. Cap imprinting: RP

Extended-release capsules: 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg, 50 mg, and 60 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride, which is equivalent to 8.6 mg, 13.0 mg, 17.3 mg, 25.9 mg, 34.6 mg, 43.2 mg, and 51.9 mg of methylphenidate free base, respectively, per capsule. (3)