2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Recommended dosage in patients 12 years of age and older:

See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with hepatic impairment. ( 2.1, 2.2)

Administration Instructions ( 2.3) :

Take without regard to food.
Swallow whole; do not chew.
See full prescribing information for alternative administration options.

2.1 Recommended Dosage in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older

Table 1. Recommended Dexlansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Dosage Regimen by Indication in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older

Indication	Dosage of Dexlansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules	Duration
Healing of EE	One 60 mg capsule once daily.	Up to 8 weeks.
Maintenance of Healed EE and Relief of Heartburn	One 30 mg capsule once daily.	Controlled studies did not extend beyond 6 months in adults and 16 weeks in patients 12 to 17 years of age.
Symptomatic Non-Erosive GERD	One 30 mg capsule once daily.	4 weeks.

2.2 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment for the Healing of Erosive Esophagitis

For patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B), the recommended dosage is 30 mg dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules once daily for up to eight weeks. Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules are not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] .

2.3 Important Administration Information

Take without regard to food.
Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose.
Swallow whole; do not chew.
For patients who have trouble swallowing capsules, dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered with applesauce as follows:

Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container.
Open capsule.
Sprinkle intact granules on applesauce.
Swallow applesauce and granules immediately. Do not chew granules. Do not save the applesauce and granules for later use.

Alternatively, the capsule can be administered with water via oral syringe or nasogastric (NG) tube.
Administration with Water in an Oral Syringe

Open the capsule and empty the granules into a clean container with 20 mL of water.
Withdraw the entire mixture into a syringe.
Gently swirl the syringe in order to keep granules from settling.
Administer the mixture immediately into the mouth. Do not save the water and granule mixture for later use.
Refill the syringe with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer.
Refill the syringe again with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer.

Administration with Water via a NG Tube (≥16 French)

Open the capsule and empty the granules into a clean container with 20 mL of water.
Withdraw the entire mixture into a catheter-tip syringe.
Swirl the catheter-tip syringe gently in order to keep the granules from settling, and immediately inject the mixture through the NG tube into the stomach. Do not save the water and granule mixture for later use.
Refill the catheter-tip syringe with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and flush the tube.
Refill the catheter-tip syringe again with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules

30 mg: strength is an opaque, blue cap with light grey body, imprinted with "T001" in black ink, the capsule contains white to off white film-coated pellets.
60 mg: strength is an opaque, blue cap with blue body, imprinted with "T002" in black ink, the capsule contains white to off white film-coated pellets.

Delayed-release capsules: 30 mg and 60 mg. ( 3)