2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is available as 5 mg breakable (scored) tablets, allowing for the administration of 2.5 mg, if needed. Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets can be taken without regard to food consumption.

Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2)

Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening
Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening
Renal Impairment

Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3)

2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria

Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older

The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablet is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. Some patients may be adequately controlled by 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening.

Children 6 to 11 Years of Age

The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablet is 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening. The 2.5 mg dose should not be exceeded because the systemic exposure with 5 mg is approximately twice that of adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment

In adults and children 12 years of age and older with:

Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL _CR] = 50 to 80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended;
Moderate renal impairment (CL _CR = 30 to 50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended;
Severe renal impairment (CL _CR = 10 to 30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3 to 4 days) is recommended;
End-stage renal disease patients (CL _CR <10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets.

No dose adjustment is needed in patients with solely hepatic impairment. In patients with both hepatic impairment and renal impairment, adjustment of the dose is recommended.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets, USP are white to off white, oval shaped biconvex film coated tablet debossed with ‘I’ and ‘12’ on one side and score line on the other side and contain 5 mg levocetirizine dihydrochloride.

Immediate release breakable (scored) tablets, 5 mg ( 3)