2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

For oral inhalation only. Do not swallow tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules, as the intended effects on the lungs will not be obtained. The contents of the tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules should only be used with the LupinHaler^® device [see Overdosage (10)].

The recommended dosage of tiotropium bromide inhalation powder is two inhalations of the powder contents of one tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsule, once-daily, with the LupinHaler device [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Do not take more than one dose in 24 hours.

For administration of tiotropium bromide inhalation powder, a tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsule is placed into the center chamber of the LupinHaler device. The tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsule is pierced by pressing and releasing the green piercing button on the side of the LupinHaler device. The tiotropium formulation is dispersed into the air stream when the patient inhales through the mouthpiece [see Patient Counseling Information (17)].

No dosage adjustment is required for geriatric, hepatically-impaired, or renally-impaired patients. However, patients with moderate to severe renal impairment given tiotropium bromide inhalation powder should be monitored closely for anticholinergic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6, 8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

For oral inhalation only. DO NOT swallow tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules. Only use tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules with the LupinHaler ^® device (2)
Two inhalations of the powder contents of a single tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsule (18 mcg) once daily (2)

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Inhalation Powder: Tiotropium bromide inhalation powder consists of tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules containing tiotropium powder for oral inhalation and a LupinHaler device. Tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules contain 18 mcg of tiotropium (equivalent to 22.5 mcg tiotropium bromide monohydrate USP) in a hypromellose capsule with white opaque cap and white opaque body, imprinted with "LU" on cap and "T18" on body. The LupinHaler device is only intended for use with the tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules.

Inhalation powder: Tiotropium bromide inhalation powder capsules contain 18 mcg tiotropium powder (equivalent to 22.5 mcg tiotropium bromide monohydrate USP) for use with LupinHaler device (3)