AH XSL/XML Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

Userid: CPM

Schema: tipx Leadpct: 100% Pt. size: 10

Page 1 of 62  

 Draft 

 Ok to Print

(Init. & Date) _______

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Publication 590-A

Contributions 
to Individual
Retirement
Arrangements
(IRAs)

For use in preparing
2025 Returns

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English) 
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) 
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文) 

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어) 
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский) 
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt) 

Contents

Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

What’s New for 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

What’s New for 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Chapter  1.  Traditional IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Who Can Open a Traditional IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
When Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . 7
How Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . 7
How Much Can Be Contributed? . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
When Can Contributions Be Made? . . . . . . . . . . 10
How Much Can You Deduct? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
What if You Inherit an IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets? . . . . . . . 21
When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets? . . . . . . 31
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional 

Taxes? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Chapter  2.  Roth IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
What Is a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
When Can a Roth IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . . . 39
Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Can You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? . . . . . . 44

Chapter  3.  Retirement Savings Contributions 

Credit (Saver's Credit)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

Appendices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Future Developments
For  the  latest  information  about  developments  related  to 
Pub.  590-A,  such  as  legislation  enacted  after  it  was 
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub590A.

What’s New for 2025
IRA contribution limit for 2025.  For 2025, the IRA con-
tribution  limit  remains  $7,000  ($8,000  for  individuals  age 
50 or older).
Trump account and new Form 4547.  Recent legislation 
allows  parents,  guardians,  and  other  authorized  individu-
als to elect to establish a new type of individual retirement 
account, called a Trump account, for the exclusive benefit 
of certain children. If the child was born after 2024 and be-
fore  2029,  is  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  meets  certain  other  re-
quirements, the authorized individual may also elect to re-
ceive  a  $1,000  pilot  program  contribution  to  the  child’s 
Trump  account.  Both  elections  can  be  made  on  Form 

Jan 15, 2026

Publication 590-A (2025)  Catalog Number 66302J
Department of the Treasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov

Page 2 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

4547, which can be filed at the same time as the author-
ized  individual’s  2025  income  tax  return.  For  more  infor-
mation  on  Trump  accounts,  and  to  learn  how  to  make 
these elections, see Form 4547 and its instructions.

Modified  AGI  limit  for  traditional  IRA  contributions. 
For 2025, if you are covered by a retirement plan at work, 
your  deduction  for  contributions  to  a  traditional  IRA  is  re-
duced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:

• More than $126,000 but less than $146,000 for a mar-
ried couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving 
spouse,

• More than $79,000 but less than $89,000 for a single 

individual or head of household, or

• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a sep-

arate return.

Modified  AGI  limit  for  certain  married  individuals. 
If you are married and your spouse is covered by a retire-
ment  plan  at  work  and  you  aren’t,  and  you  live  with  your 
spouse or file a joint return, your deduction is phased out if 
your  modified  AGI  is  more  than  $236,000  (up  from 
$230,000  for  2024)  but  less  than  $246,000  (up  from 
$240,000  for  2024).  If  your  modified  AGI  is  $246,000  or 
more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a tra-
ditional IRA.

Modified  AGI  limit  for  Roth  IRA  contributions.  For 
2025, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased 
out) in the following situations.

• Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying 
surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least 
$236,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if 
your modified AGI is $246,000 or more.

• Your filing status is single, head of household, or mar-
ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time in 2025 and your modified AGI is at 
least $150,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribu-
tion if your modified AGI is $165,000 or more.

• Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived 
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your 
modified AGI is more than zero. You can’t make a Roth 
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or 
more.

What’s New for 2026
IRA  contribution  limit  increased  for  2026.  Beginning 
in  2026,  the  IRA  contribution  limit  is  increased  to  $7,500 
($8,600  for  individuals  age  50  or  older)  from  $7,000 
($8,000 for individuals age 50 or older).

Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions in-
creased.  For  2026,  if  you  are  covered  by  a  retirement 
plan  at  work,  your  deduction  for  contributions  to  a  tradi-
tional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
• More than $129,000 but less than $149,000 for a mar-
ried couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving 
spouse,

• More than $81,000 but less than $91,000 for a single 

individual or head of household, or

• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a sep-

arate return.

Modified  AGI  limit  for  certain  married  individuals 
increased.  If you are married and your spouse is covered 
by  a  retirement  plan  at  work  and  you  aren’t,  and  you  live 
with  your  spouse  or  file  a  joint  return,  your  deduction  is 
phased  out  if  your  modified  AGI  is  more  than  $242,000 
(up  from  $236,000  for  2025)  but  less  than  $252,000  (up 
from $246,000 for 2025). If your modified AGI is $252,000 
or more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a 
traditional IRA.
Modified  AGI  limit  for  Roth  IRA  contributions  in-
creased.  For 2026, your Roth IRA contribution limit is re-
duced (phased out) in the following situations.
• Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying 
surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least 
$242,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if 
your modified AGI is $252,0000 or more.

• Your filing status is single, head of household, or mar-
ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time in 2026 and your modified AGI is at 
least $153,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribu-
tion if your modified AGI is $168,000 or more.

• Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived 
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your 
modified AGI is more than zero. You can’t make a Roth 
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or 
more.

Reminders
Qualified tuition program rollover to a Roth IRA.  Be-
ginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023, 
a beneficiary of a section 529 qualified tuition program is 
permitted to roll over a distribution from a section 529 ac-
count into a Roth IRA for the beneficiary if certain require-
ments are met. See Qualified tuition program rollover to a 
Roth IRA, later.
Increase  in  required  minimum  distribution  age.  Indi-
viduals who reach age 72 after December 31, 2022, may 
delay  receiving 
their  required  minimum  distributions 
(RMDs) until April 1 of the year following the year in which 
they turn age 73.
Qualified disaster tax relief.  The special rules that pro-
vide for tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from cer-
tain  qualified  plans  for  taxpayers  who  suffered  an  eco-
nomic  loss  as  a  result  of  a  qualified  disaster  were  made 
permanent by the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022.

A qualified disaster is a major disaster that occurred on 
or after January 26, 2021, and was declared by the Presi-
dent  after  December  27,  2020,  under  section  401  of  the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Act. For 
more  information,  see  Disaster-Related  Relief  in  Pub. 
590-B,  Distributions 
Individual  Retirement 
from 
Arrangements (IRAs).

2

Publication 590-A (2025)

Page 3 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Repayment  of  certain  early  distributions.  Contribu-
tions made to the eligible retirement plan as a repayment 
of  emergency  personal  expense  distributions,  domestic 
abuse distributions, and terminal illness distributions may 
be eligible for tax-free rollover treatment. See Pub. 590-B 
for more information.

Certain  corrective  distributions  not  subject  to  10% 
additional  tax.  Beginning  on  December  29,  2022,  the 
10% additional tax on early distributions will not apply to a 
corrective  IRA  distribution,  which  consists  of  an  excess 
contribution (a contribution greater than the IRA contribu-
tion limit) and any earnings allocable to the excess contri-
bution, as long as the corrective distribution is made on or 
before  the  due  date  (including  extensions)  of  the  income 
tax return.

Divorce  or  separation 
instruments  after  2018. 
Amounts  paid  as  alimony  or  separate  maintenance  pay-
ments under a divorce or separation instrument executed 
after  2018  won't  be  deductible  by  the  payer.  Such 
amounts  also  won't  be  includible  in  the  income  of  the  re-
cipient. The same is true of alimony paid under a divorce 
or separation instrument executed before 2019 and modi-
fied after 2018, if the modification expressly states that the 
alimony isn't deductible to the payer or includible in the in-
come of the recipient. For more information, see Pub. 504.

IRA  interest.  Although  interest  earned  from  your  IRA  is 
generally not taxed in the year earned, it isn’t tax-exempt 
interest.  Tax  on  your  traditional  IRA  is  generally  deferred 
until  you  take  a  distribution.  Don’t  report  this  interest  on 
your  return  as  tax-exempt  interest.  For  more  information 
on tax-exempt interest, see the instructions for your tax re-
turn.

Photographs  of  missing  children.  The  IRS  is  a  proud 
partner  with  the  National  Center  for  Missing  &  Exploited 
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
ges  that  would  otherwise  be  blank.  You  can  help  bring 
these  children  home  by  looking  at  the  photographs  and 
calling  1-800-THE-LOST  (1-800-843-5678)  if  you  recog-
nize a child.

Introduction
This  publication  discusses  contributions  to  individual  re-
tirement  arrangements  (IRAs).  An  IRA  is  a  personal  sav-
ings  plan  that  gives  you  tax  advantages  for  setting  aside 
money  for  retirement.  For  information  about  distributions 
(including rollovers) from an IRA, see Pub. 590-B.

What are some tax advantages of an IRA?  Two tax ad-
vantages of an IRA are that:

• Contributions you make to an IRA may be fully or parti-
ally deductible, depending on which type of IRA you 
have and on your circumstances; and

• Generally, amounts in your IRA (including earnings 
and gains) aren’t taxed until distributed. In some ca-
ses, amounts aren’t taxed at all if distributed according 
to the rules.

What's  in  this  publication?  This  publication  discusses 
contributions  to  traditional  and  Roth  IRAs.  It  explains  the 
rules for:
• Setting up an IRA,
• Contributing to an IRA,
• Transferring money or property to and from an IRA, 

and

• Taking a credit for contributions to an IRA.

It  also  explains  the  penalties  and  additional  taxes  that 
apply when the rules aren’t followed. To assist you in com-
plying with the tax rules for IRAs, this publication contains 
worksheets  and  sample  forms,  which  can  be  found 
throughout  the  publication  and  in  the  appendices  at  the 
end of the publication.

How  to  use  this  publication.  The  rules  that  you  must 
follow  depend  on  which  type  of  IRA  you  have.  Use  Table 
I-1 to help you determine which parts of this publication to 
read. Also use Table I-1 if you were referred to this publi-
cation from instructions to a form.

Comments  and  suggestions.  We  welcome  your  com-
ments  about  this  publication  and  suggestions  for  future 
editions.

You  can  send  us  comments 

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue 
Service,  Tax  Forms  and  Publications,  1111  Constitution 
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through 

Although  we  can’t  respond  individually  to  each  com-
ment  received,  we  do  appreciate  your  feedback  and  will 
consider  your  comments  and  suggestions  as  we  revise 
our  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications.  Don’t  send 
tax  questions,  tax  returns,  or  payments  to  the  above  ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions.  If you have 
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How 
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go 
to  the  IRS  Interactive  Tax  Assistant  page  at  IRS.gov/
Help/ITA  where  you  can  find  topics  by  using  the  search 
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications. 
Go  to  IRS.gov/Forms  to  download  current  and  prior-year 
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications. 
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions,  and  publications;  call  800-829-3676 
to  order 
prior-year  forms  and  instructions.  The  IRS  will  process 
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible. 
Don’t  resubmit  requests  you’ve  already  sent  us.  You  can 
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publications

  505

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax

Publication 590-A (2025)

3

Page 4 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

  590-B

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement 

  5305-SIMPLE

5305-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for 

Arrangements (IRAs)
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business (SEP, 
SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)
571 Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans)
575 Pension and Annuity Income
939 General Rule for Pensions and Annuities

  560

  571
  575
  939

Forms (and Instructions)

  W-4P

W-4P Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity 

Payments

  1099-R

1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, 

Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, 
Insurance Contracts, etc.

  5304-SIMPLE

5304-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for 

Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—Not 
for Use With a Designated Financial Institution

  5305-S
  5305-SA

5305-S SIMPLE Individual Retirement Trust Account
5305-SA SIMPLE Individual Retirement Custodial 

Account

Table I-1. Using This Publication

Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—for 
Use With a Designated Financial Institution

  5329

5329 Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including 
IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts

  5498

5498 IRA Contribution Information

  8606

8606 Nondeductible IRAs

  8815

8815 Exclusion of Interest From Series EE and I U.S. 
Savings Bonds Issued After 1989

  8839

8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses

  8880

8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings 
Contributions

  8915-F

8915-F Qualified Disaster Retirement Plan 

Distributions and Repayments

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this publication 
for information about getting these publications and forms.

IF you need information on...

 THEN see... 

traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs)

 chapter 1.

Roth IRAs (not including Roth SIMPLE IRAs)

 chapter 2, and parts of 
 chapter 1.

the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions 
(saver's credit)

 chapter 3.

how to keep a record of your contributions to, and 
distributions from, your traditional IRA(s) 

SEP IRAs, SIMPLE IRAs, and 401(k) plans

Coverdell education savings accounts (ESAs) (formerly 
called education IRAs)

IF for 2025, you:
• received social security benefits,
• had taxable compensation,
• contributed to a traditional IRA, and
• you or your spouse was covered by an employer 

retirement plan,

 and you want to...

 Appendix A.

 Pub. 560.

 Pub. 970.

 THEN see...

first figure your modified adjusted gross income (AGI)

 Appendix B,  Worksheet 1.

then figure how much of your traditional IRA contribution 
you can deduct

 Appendix B,  Worksheet 2.

and finally figure how much of your social security is 
taxable 

 Appendix B,  Worksheet 3.

4

Publication 590-A (2025)

Page 5 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Table I-2. How Are a Traditional IRA and a Roth IRA Different?
This table shows the differences between traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs) and Roth IRAs (not 
including Roth SIMPLE IRAs). Answers in the middle column apply to traditional IRAs. Answers in the right column apply 
to Roth IRAs.

Question

Answer

Traditional IRA?

Roth IRA?

Is there an age limit on when I can open 
and contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

If I earned more than $7,000 in 2025 
($8,000 if I was age 50 or older by the 
end of 2025), is there a limit on how 
much I can contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . .

Can I deduct contributions to a . . . . . . .

Do I have to file a form just because I 
contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

No. For tax years after 2019, you are 
able to contribute to your IRA even if 
you have reached age 701/2 or older. 
See Who Can Open a Traditional IRA? 
in chapter 1.

Yes. For 2025, you can contribute to a 
traditional IRA up to: 

• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older 

by the end of 2025.

There is no upper limit on how much 
you can earn and still contribute. See 
How Much Can Be Contributed? in 
chapter 1. 

Yes. You may be able to deduct your 
contributions to a traditional IRA 
depending on your income, your filing 
status, whether you are covered by a 
retirement plan at work, and whether 
you receive social security benefits. 
See How Much Can You Deduct? in 
chapter 1.

Not unless you make nondeductible 
contributions to your traditional IRA. In 
that case, you must file Form 8606. See 
Nondeductible Contributions in 
chapter 1.

No. You can be any age. See Can You 
Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.

Yes. For 2025, you may be able to 
contribute to a Roth IRA up to: 

• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older 

by the end of 2025,

but the amount you can contribute may 
be less than that depending on your 
income, your filing status, and if you 
contribute to another IRA. See How 
Much Can Be Contributed? and Table 
2-1 in chapter 2.

No. You can never deduct contributions 
to a Roth IRA. See What Is a Roth IRA? 
in chapter 2.

No. You don’t have to file a form if you 
contribute to a Roth IRA. See 
Contributions not reported in chapter 2.

Publication 590-A (2025)

5

Page 6 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1.

Traditional IRAs

Reminders

Types of IRAs.  An IRA can be either a traditional IRA or 
a  Roth  IRA.  In  general,  individuals  may  make  their  own 
contributions to their traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. In ad-
dition, certain employers have arrangements under which 
the employer may contribute to IRAs of their employees.

Under a SEP arrangement, an employer contributes to 
traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SEP 
IRAs)  or  Roth  IRAs  (sometimes  referred  to  as  Roth  SEP 
IRAs)  of  its  employees.  Individuals  may  separately  make 
their  own  contributions  to  the  same  IRAs  to  which  their 
employer contributes under a SEP arrangement.

Under  a  SIMPLE  IRA  plan,  an  employer  contributes 
salary  reduction  contributions  (at  the  election  of  the  em-
ployee), matching contributions and/or nonelective contri-
butions to traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as tradi-
tional SIMPLE IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes referred to 
as Roth SIMPLE IRAs) of its employees. However, a SIM-
PLE  IRA  (whether  a  traditional  SIMPLE  IRA  or  a  Roth 
SIMPLE  IRA)  is  subject  to  certain  restrictions  that  do  not 
generally apply to other traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. For 
example,  an  individual  cannot  make  their  own  contribu-
tions  to  a  SIMPLE  IRA.  In  addition,  there  are  various  re-
strictions  related  to  distributions  and  contributions  during 
the initial 2 years of participation in the SIMPLE IRA plan.

References in this publication to traditional IRAs gener-
ally include traditional SEP IRAs but do not include tradi-
tional  SIMPLE  IRAs,  unless  otherwise  stated.  Likewise, 
references to Roth IRAs generally include Roth SEP IRAs 
but  do  not  include  Roth  SIMPLE  IRAs,  unless  otherwise 
stated.

Introduction
This  chapter  discusses  the  original  IRA.  In  this  publica-
tion, the original IRA (sometimes called an ordinary or reg-
ular IRA) is referred to as a “traditional IRA.” For purposes 
of this publication, a traditional IRA is any IRA that isn’t a 
Roth IRA or a SIMPLE IRA. Traditional IRAs include tradi-
tional  IRAs  that  receive  employer  contributions  from  SEP 
arrangements. The following are two advantages of a tra-
ditional IRA.

• You may be able to deduct some or all of your contri-
butions to it, depending on your circumstances.
• Generally, amounts in your IRA, including earnings 
and gains, aren’t taxed until they are distributed.

Roth  IRAs  are  discussed  in  chapter  2.  SIMPLE  IRAs 
are  discussed  in  Pub.  560.  For  a  traditional  IRA  that  re-
ceives  employer  contributions  from  a  SEP  arrangement, 
see Simplified Employee Pension (SEP), later.

Who Can Open a Traditional 
IRA?

You can open and make contributions to a traditional IRA if 
you (or, if you file a joint return, your spouse) received tax-
able compensation during the year.

You  can  have  a  traditional  IRA  whether  or  not  you  are 
covered  by  any  other  retirement  plan.  However,  you  may 
not be able to deduct all of your contributions if you or your 
spouse  is  covered  by  an  employer  retirement  plan.  See 
How Much Can You Deduct, later.

For tax years beginning after December 31, 2019, 
the  rule  that  you  are  not  able  to  make  contribu-
tions  to  your  traditional  IRA  for  the  year  in  which 

you reach age 70½ and all later years has been repealed.

Both  spouses  have  compensation.  If  both  you  and 
your spouse have compensation, each of you can open an 
IRA. You can’t both participate in the same IRA. If you file 
a  joint  return,  only  one  of  you  needs  to  have  compensa-
tion.

What Is Compensation?

Generally,  compensation  is  what  you  earn  from  working. 
For  a  summary  of  what  compensation  does  and  doesn’t 
include,  see  Table  1-1.  Compensation  includes  all  of  the 
items  discussed  next  (even  if  you  have  more  than  one 
type).

Wages, salaries, etc.  Wages, salaries, tips, professional 
fees, bonuses, and other amounts you receive for provid-
ing  personal  services  are  compensation.  The  IRS  treats 
as  compensation  any  amount  properly  shown  in  box  1 
(Wages,  tips,  other  compensation)  of  Form  W-2,  Wage 
and  Tax  Statement,  provided  that  amount  is  reduced  by 
any  amount  properly  shown  in  box  11  (Nonqualified 
plans).  A  scholarship  or  fellowship  is  generally  taxable 
compensation only if it is in box 1 of your Form W-2. How-
ever, for tax years beginning after 2019, certain non-tuition 
fellowship  and  stipend  payments  not  reported  to  you  on 
Form  W-2  are  treated  as  taxable  compensation  for  IRA 
purposes.  These  amounts  include  taxable  non-tuition  fel-
lowship and stipend payments made to aid you in the pur-
suit of graduate or postdoctoral study and included in your 
gross  income  under  the  rules  discussed  in  chapter  1  of 
Pub. 970, Tax Benefits for Education.

Commissions.  An amount you receive that is a percent-
age of profits or sales price is compensation.

Self-employment  income.  If  you  are  self-employed  (a 
sole  proprietor  or  a  partner),  compensation  is  the  net 

6

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

TIPPage 7 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

earnings  from  your  trade  or  business  (provided  your  per-
sonal services are a material income-producing factor) re-
duced by the total of:
• The deduction for contributions made on your behalf 

to retirement plans, and

• The deduction allowed for the deductible part of your 

self-employment taxes.

Compensation includes earnings from self-employment 
even if they aren’t subject to self-employment tax because 
of your religious beliefs.

Self-employment  loss.  If  you  have  a  net  loss  from 
self-employment, don’t subtract the loss from your salaries 
or wages when figuring your total compensation.

Alimony  and  separate  maintenance.  For  IRA  purpo-
ses, compensation includes any taxable alimony and sep-
arate maintenance payments you receive under a decree 
of divorce or separate maintenance but only with respect 
to divorce or separation instruments executed on or before 
December  31,  2018,  that  have  not  been  modified  to  ex-
clude such amounts.

Nontaxable  combat  pay.  If  you  were  a  member  of  the 
U.S. Armed Forces, compensation includes any nontaxa-
ble  combat  pay  you  received.  This  amount  should  be  re-
ported in box 12 of your 2025 Form W-2 with code Q.

Graduate  or  postdoctoral  study.  A  scholarship  or  fel-
lowship  is  generally  taxable  compensation  only  if  it  is  in 
box 1 of your Form W-2. However, for tax years beginning 
after 2019, certain non-tuition fellowship and stipend pay-
ments not reported to you on Form W-2 are treated as tax-
able  compensation  for  IRA  purposes.  These  amounts  in-
clude taxable non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments 
made to aid you in the pursuit of graduate or postdoctoral 
study  and  included  in  your  gross  income  under  the  rules 
discussed in chapter 1 of Pub. 970.

Table 1-1.

Compensation for Purposes
of an IRA

Includes...

Doesn’t include...

 earnings and profits from
 property.

 interest and
 dividend income.

 pension or annuity
 income.

 deferred compensation.

 income from certain 
 partnerships.

 any amounts you exclude
 from income.

wages, salaries, etc.

commissions.

self-employment income.

taxable alimony and separate 
maintenance.

nontaxable combat pay.

taxable non-tuition fellowship and 
stipend payments.

What Isn’t Compensation?

Compensation doesn’t include any of the following items.
• Earnings and profits from property, such as rental in-

come, interest income, and dividend income.

• Pension or annuity income.
• Deferred compensation received (compensation pay-

ments postponed from a past year).

• Income from a partnership for which you don’t provide 
services that are a material income-producing factor.
• Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) payments re-

ported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.

• Any amounts (other than combat pay) you exclude 
from income, such as foreign earned income and 
housing costs.

When Can a Traditional IRA Be 
Opened?

You  can  open  a  traditional  IRA  at  any  time.  However,  the 
time  for  making  contributions  for  any  year  is  limited.  See 
When Can Contributions Be Made, later.

How Can a Traditional IRA Be 
Opened?

You  can  open  different  kinds  of  IRAs  with  a  variety  of  or-
ganizations. You can open an IRA at a bank or other finan-
cial institution or with a mutual fund or life insurance com-
pany. You can also open an IRA through your stockbroker. 
Any IRA must meet Internal Revenue Code requirements. 
The  requirements  for  the  various  arrangements  are  dis-
cussed below.

Kinds of traditional IRAs.  Your traditional IRA can be an 
individual retirement account or annuity. It can be an em-
ployer or employee association trust account. A traditional 
IRA  can  also  be  used  to  accept  employer  contributions 
under a SEP arrangement (sometimes referred to as a tra-
ditional SEP IRA).

Individual Retirement Account

An individual retirement account is a trust or custodial ac-
count set up in the United States for the exclusive benefit 
of  you  or  your  beneficiaries.  The  account  is  created  by  a 
written  document.  The  document  must  show  that  the  ac-
count meets all of the following requirements.

• The trustee or custodian must be a bank, a federally 
insured credit union, a savings and loan association, 
or an entity approved by the IRS to act as trustee or 
custodian.

• The trustee or custodian generally can’t accept contri-
butions of more than the deductible amount for the 

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

7

Page 8 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

year. However, rollover contributions and employer 
contributions to a traditional SEP IRA can be more 
than this amount.

• Contributions, except for rollover contributions, must 

be in cash. See Rollovers, later.

• You must have a nonforfeitable right to the amount at 

all times.

• Money in your account can’t be used to buy a life in-

surance policy.

• Assets in your account can’t be combined with other 
property, except in a common trust fund or common 
investment fund.

• You must start receiving distributions by April 1 of the 

year following the year in which you reach age 73. See 
Pub. 590-B for more information about RMDs and 
other distribution rules.

Individual Retirement Annuity

You can open an individual retirement annuity by purchas-
ing an annuity contract or an endowment contract from a 
life insurance company.

An individual retirement annuity must be issued in your 
name  as  the  owner,  and  either  you  or  your  beneficiaries 
who  survive  you  are  the  only  ones  who  can  receive  the 
benefits or payments.

An  individual  retirement  annuity  must  meet  all  the  fol-

lowing requirements.
• Your entire interest in the contract must be nonforfeita-

ble.

• The contract must provide that you can’t transfer any 

portion of it to any person other than the issuer.

• There must be flexible premiums so that if your com-
pensation changes, your payment can also change. 
This provision applies to contracts issued after No-
vember 6, 1978.

• The contract must provide that contributions can’t be 
more than the deductible amount for an IRA for the 
year, and that you must use any refunded premiums to 
pay for future premiums or to buy more benefits before 
the end of the calendar year after the year in which 
you receive the refund.

• Distributions must begin by April 1 of the year follow-
ing the year in which you reach age 73. See Pub. 
590-B for more information about RMDs and other dis-
tribution rules. 

Individual Retirement Bonds

The sale of individual retirement bonds issued by the fed-
eral government was suspended after April 30, 1982. The 
bonds have the following features.

• They stop earning interest when you reach age 701/2. 
If you die, interest will stop 5 years after your death, or 
on the date you would have reached age 701/2, 
whichever is earlier.

• You can’t transfer the bonds.
If  you  cash  (redeem)  the  bonds  before  the  year  in  which 
you  reach  age  591/2,  you  may  be  subject  to  a  10%  addi-
tional tax. See Pub. 590-B for more information about the 
age 591/2 rule for early distributions and other distribution 
rules. You can roll over redemption proceeds into IRAs.

SIMPLE IRA Plans and SIMPLE IRAs

A  SIMPLE  IRA  plan  is  a  tax-favored  retirement  plan  that 
certain small employers (including self-employed employ-
ees) can set up for the benefit of their employees. Contri-
butions  to  the  employees’  SIMPLE  IRA  are  made  by  the 
employers and are made up of salary reduction contribu-
tions  and  employer  contributions  which  are  either  match-
ing  contributions  or  nonelective  contributions.  A  SIMPLE 
IRA can be either a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIM-
PLE  IRA  but  are  subject  to  different  rules  than  traditional 
or  Roth  IRAs.  See  Pub.  560  for  more  information  about 
SIMPLE IRA plans and SIMPLE IRAs.

Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) 
Arrangements and SIMPLE IRAs

A  SEP  arrangement  is  a  written  plan  that  allows  an  em-
ployer  to  make  contributions  to  an  employee’s  traditional 
SEP IRA or Roth SEP IRA. Employer contributions to SEP 
IRAs are subject to different limits than individual contribu-
tions to traditional and Roth IRAs. Distributions from SEP 
IRAs  are  subject  to  traditional  and  Roth  IRA  rules.  See 
Pub.  560  for  more  information  about  SEP  arrangements 
and SIMPLE IRAs.

Employer and Employee Association 
Trust Accounts

Your  employer  or  your  labor  union  or  other  employee  as-
sociation can set up a trust to provide individual retirement 
accounts for employees or members, provided certain re-
quirements  are  met  (such  as  separate  accounting).  The 
requirements  for  individual  retirement  accounts  apply  to 
these traditional and Roth IRAs.

Required Disclosures

The  trustee  or  issuer  (sometimes  called  the  sponsor)  of 
your  traditional  IRA  must  generally  give  you  a  disclosure 
statement at least 7 days before you open your IRA. How-
ever,  the  sponsor  doesn’t  have  to  give  you  the  statement 
until  the  date  you  open  (or  purchase,  if  earlier)  your  IRA, 
provided you are given at least 7 days from that date to re-
voke the IRA.

The disclosure statement must explain certain items in 
plain language. For example, the statement should explain 
when  and  how  you  can  revoke  the  IRA,  and  include  the 
name,  address,  and  telephone  number  of  the  person  to 
receive  the  notice  of  cancellation.  This  explanation  must 
appear at the beginning of the disclosure statement. 

8

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Page 9 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

If you revoke your IRA within the revocation period, the 
sponsor  must  return  to  you  the  entire  amount  you  paid. 
The  sponsor  must  report  on  the  appropriate  IRS  forms 
both your contribution to the IRA (unless it was made by a 
trustee-to-trustee  transfer)  and  the  amount  returned  to 
you. These requirements apply to all sponsors.

How Much Can Be 
Contributed?

• Naval Reserve,
• Marine Corps Reserve,
• Air National Guard of the United States,
• Air Force Reserve,
• Coast Guard Reserve, or
• Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.

Figuring  your  IRA  deduction.  The  repayment  of 
qualified  reservist  distributions  doesn’t  affect  the  amount 
you can deduct as an IRA contribution.

There are limits and other rules that affect the amount that 
can  be  contributed  to  a  traditional  IRA.  These  limits  and 
rules are explained below.

Reporting the repayment.  If you repay a qualified re-
servist  distribution,  include  the  amount  of  the  repayment 
with nondeductible contributions on line 1 of Form 8606.

Community  property  laws.  Except  as  discussed  later 
under  Kay  Bailey  Hutchison  Spousal  IRA  Limit,  each 
spouse figures their limit separately, using their own com-
pensation.  This  is  the  rule  even  in  states  with  community 
property laws.

Brokers'  commissions.  Brokers'  commissions  paid  in 
connection with your traditional IRA are subject to the con-
tribution  limit.  For  information  about  whether  you  can  de-
duct  brokers'  commissions,  see  Brokers'  commissions, 
later, under How Much Can You Deduct.

Trustees'  fees.  Trustees'  administrative  fees  aren’t  sub-
ject to the contribution limit. For information about whether 
you  can  deduct  trustees'  fees,  see  Trustees'  fees,  later, 
under How Much Can You Deduct.

Qualified reservist repayments.  If you were a member 
of a reserve component and you were ordered or called to 
active duty after September 11, 2001, you may be able to 
contribute  (repay)  to  an  IRA  amounts  equal  to  any  quali-
fied  reservist  distributions  (defined  under  Early  Distribu-
tions in Pub. 590-B) you received. You can make these re-
payment contributions even if they would cause your total 
contributions to the IRA to be more than the general limit 
on  contributions.  To  be  eligible  to  make  these  repayment 
contributions, you must have received a qualified reservist 
distribution from an IRA or from a section 401(k) or 403(b) 
plan  or  a  similar  arrangement.  See  Early  Distributions  in 
Pub. 590-B for more information on qualified reservist dis-
tributions.

Limit.  Your  qualified  reservist  repayments  can’t  be 

more than your qualified reservist distributions.

When  repayment  contributions  can  be  made.  You 
can’t  make  these  repayment  contributions  later  than  the 
date that is 2 years after your active duty period ends.

No deduction.  You can’t deduct qualified reservist re-

payments.

Reserve  component.  The  term  “reserve  component” 

means the:

• Army National Guard of the United States,
• Army Reserve,

IRA  contribution 

Example.  In  2025,  your 

is 
$7,000.  However,  because  of  your  filing  status  and  AGI, 
the limit on the amount you can deduct is $3,500. You can 
make  a  nondeductible  contribution  of  $3,500  ($7,000  – 
$3,500). In an earlier year, you received a $3,000 qualified 
reservist  distribution,  which  you  would  like  to  repay  this 
year.

limit 

For 2025, you can contribute a total of $10,000 to your 
IRA. This is made up of the maximum deductible contribu-
tion  of  $3,500;  a  nondeductible  contribution  of  $3,500; 
and a $3,000 qualified reservist repayment. You contribute 
the  maximum  allowable  for  the  year.  Because  you  are 
making a nondeductible contribution ($3,500) and a quali-
fied  reservist  repayment  ($3,000),  you  must  file  Form 
8606  with  your  return  and  include  $6,500  ($3,500  + 
$3,000) on line 1 of Form 8606. The qualified reservist re-
payment isn’t deductible.

Contributions  on  your  behalf  to  a  traditional  IRA 
reduce  your  limit  for  contributions  to  a  Roth  IRA. 
See chapter 2 for information about Roth IRAs.

General Limit

For  2025,  the  most  that  can  be  contributed  to  your  tradi-
tional 
is  generally  the  smaller  of  the  following 
amounts.

IRA 

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).
• Your taxable compensation (defined earlier) for the 

year.

Note:  This  limit  is  reduced  by  any  contributions  to  a 
section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created 
before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee 
contributions).

This  is  the  most  that  can  be  contributed  regardless  of 
whether  the  contributions  are  to  one  or  more  traditional 
IRAs or whether all or part of the contributions are nonde-
ductible.  (See  Nondeductible  Contributions,  later.)  Quali-
fied reservist repayments don’t affect this limit.

Examples.  Gina, who is 34 years old and single, earns 
$24,000 in 2025. Her IRA contributions for 2025 are limi-
ted to $7,000.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

9

CAUTION!Page 10 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Danny, an unmarried college student working part time, 
earns  $3,500  in  2025.  His  IRA  contributions  for  2025  are 
limited to $3,500, the amount of his compensation.

More than one IRA.  If you have more than one IRA, the 
limit applies to the total contributions made on your behalf 
to all your traditional IRAs for the year.

Annuity  or  endowment  contracts.  If  you  invest  in  an 
annuity or endowment contract under an individual retire-
ment annuity, no more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 
50 or older) can be contributed toward its cost for the tax 
year, including the cost of life insurance coverage. If more 
than this amount is contributed, the annuity or endowment 
contract is disqualified.

Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA 
Limit

For  2025,  if  you  file  a  joint  return  and  your  taxable  com-
pensation  is  less  than  that  of  your  spouse,  the  most  that 
can be contributed for the year to your IRA is the smaller 
of the following two amounts.

1. $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).

2. The total compensation includible in the gross income 
of both you and your spouse for the year, reduced by 
the following two amounts.

a. Your spouse's IRA contribution for the year to a 

traditional IRA.

b. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on be-

half of your spouse.

This  means  that  the  total  combined  contributions  that 
can  be  made  for  the  year  to  your  IRA  and  your  spouse's 
IRA  can  be  as  much  as  $14,000  ($15,000  if  only  one  of 
you is age 50 or older, or $16,000 if both of you are age 50 
or older).

Note:  This  traditional IRA limit is reduced by any con-
tributions  to  a  section  501(c)(18)  plan  (generally,  a  pen-
sion plan created before June 25, 1959, that is funded en-
tirely by employee contributions).

Example.  You  are  a  full-time  student  with  no  taxable 
compensation and marry during the year. Neither you nor 
your spouse are at least age 50 by the end of 2025. Your 
spouse  has  taxable  compensation  of  $30,000.  Your 
spouse plans to contribute (and deduct) $7,000 to a tradi-
tional  IRA.  If  you  and  your  spouse  file  a  joint  return,  you 
and  your  spouse  can  each  contribute  $7,000  to  a  tradi-
tional  IRA.  Because  you  have  no  compensation,  you  can 
add your spouse’s compensation, reduced by the amount 
of  your  spouse’s  IRA  contribution  ($30,000  –  $7,000  = 
$23,000),  to  your  compensation  (-0-)  to  figure  your  maxi-
mum contribution to a traditional IRA. In your case, $7,000 
is  your  contribution  limit,  because  $7,000  is  less  than 
$23,000 (your compensation for purposes of figuring your 
contribution limit).

Filing Status

Generally,  except  as  discussed  earlier  under  Kay  Bailey 
Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit, your filing status has no ef-
fect on the amount of allowable contributions to your tradi-
tional  IRA.  However,  if  during  the  year  either  you  or  your 
spouse was covered by a retirement plan at work, your de-
duction may be reduced or eliminated, depending on your 
filing status and income. See How Much Can You Deduct, 
later.

Example.  You  and  your  spouse  are  both  age  53.  You 
both work and you both have a traditional IRA. You earned 
$3,800  and  your  spouse  earned  $48,000  in  2025.  Be-
cause of the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit rule, 
even  though  you  earned  less  than  $8,000,  you  can  con-
tribute up to $8,000 to your IRA for 2025 if you file a joint 
return.  Your  spouse  can  contribute  up  to  $8,000  to  their 
IRA.  If  you  file  separate  returns,  the  amount  that  can  be 
contributed to your IRA is limited by your earned income, 
$3,800.

Less Than Maximum Contributions

If contributions to your traditional IRA for a year were less 
than the limit, you can’t contribute more after the due date 
of your return for that year to make up the difference.

Example.  You  are  age  40  and  earn  $30,000  in  2025. 
Although  you  can  contribute  up  to  $7,000  for  2025,  you 
contribute  only  $3,000.  After  April  15,  2026,  you  can’t 
make up the difference between your actual contributions 
for 2025 ($3,000) and your 2025 limit  ($7,000). You can’t 
contribute $4,000 more than the limit for any later year.

More Than Maximum Contributions

If contributions to your IRA for a year were more than the 
limit, you can apply the excess contribution in one year to 
a later year if the contributions for that later year are less 
than the maximum allowed for that year. However, a pen-
alty  or  additional  tax  may  apply.  See  Excess  Contribu-
tions,  later,  under  What  Acts  Result  in  Penalties  or  Addi-
tional Taxes.

When Can Contributions Be 
Made?

As  soon  as  you  open  your  traditional  IRA,  contributions 
can be made to it through your chosen sponsor (trustee or 
other  administrator).  Contributions  must  be  in  the  form  of 
money  (cash,  check,  or  money  order).  Property  can’t  be 
contributed.

Although  property  can’t  be  contributed,  your  IRA  may 
invest in certain property. For example, your IRA may pur-
chase shares of stock. For other restrictions on the use of 
funds in your IRA, see Prohibited Transactions, later in this 
chapter.  You  may  be  able  to  transfer  or  roll  over  certain 

10

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Page 11 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

property from one retirement plan to another. See the dis-
cussion of rollovers and other transfers later in this chapter 
under Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets.

However,  if  you  or  your  spouse  was  covered  by  an  em-
ployer retirement plan, you may not be able to deduct this 
amount. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, later.

You can make a contribution to your IRA by having 
your  income  tax  refund  (or  a  portion  of  your  re-
fund), if any, paid directly to your traditional IRA or 
Roth IRA. For details, see the instructions for your income 
tax return or Form 8888, Allocation of Refund.

Contributions  can  be  made  to  your  traditional  IRA  for 
each year that you receive compensation. For any year in 
which you don’t work, contributions can’t be made to your 
IRA unless you receive taxable alimony, nontaxable com-
bat pay, or military differential pay, or file a joint return with 
a  spouse  who  has  compensation.  See  Who  Can  Open  a 
Traditional IRA, earlier. Even if contributions can’t be made 
for  the  current  year,  the  amounts  contributed  for  years  in 
which  you  did  qualify  can  remain  in  your  IRA.  Contribu-
tions can resume for any years that you qualify.

Contributions  must  be  made  by  due  date.  Contribu-
tions can be made to your traditional IRA for a year at any 
time during the year or by the due date for filing your return 
for  that  year,  not  including  extensions.  For  most  people, 
this  means  that  contributions  for  2025  must  be  made  by 
April 15, 2026.

For  tax  years  beginning  after  2019,  the  rule  that 
you are not able to make contributions to your tra-
ditional  IRA  for  the  year  in  which  you  reach  age 

70½ and all later years has been repealed.

Designating  year  for  which  contribution  is  made.  If 
an  amount  is  contributed  to  your  traditional  IRA  between 
January 1 and April 15, you should tell the sponsor which 
year  (the  current  year  or  the  previous  year)  the  contribu-
tion is for. If you don’t tell the sponsor which year it is for, 
the  sponsor  can  assume,  and  report  to  the  IRS,  that  the 
contribution  is  for  the  current  year  (the  year  the  sponsor 
received it).

Filing before a contribution is made.  You can file your 
return  claiming  a  traditional  IRA  contribution  before  the 
contribution  is  actually  made.  Generally,  the  contribution 
must be made by the due date of your return, not including 
extensions.

Contributions  not  required.  You  don’t  have  to  contrib-
ute  to  your  traditional  IRA  for  every  tax  year,  even  if  you 
can.

How Much Can You Deduct?

Generally, you can deduct the lesser of:

• The contributions to your traditional IRA for the year, 

or

• The general limit (or the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal 
IRA limit, if applicable) explained earlier under How 
Much Can Be Contributed.

You may be able to claim a credit for contributions 
to  your  traditional  IRA.  For  more  information,  see 
chapter 3.

Trustees' fees.  Trustees' administrative fees that are bil-
led separately and paid in connection with your traditional 
IRA  aren’t  deductible  as  IRA  contributions.  You  are  also 
not able to deduct these fees as an itemized deduction.

Brokers'  commissions.  These  commissions  are  part  of 
your IRA contribution and, as such, are deductible subject 
to the limits.

Full  deduction.  If  neither  you  nor  your  spouse  was  cov-
ered  for  any  part  of  the  year  by  an  employer  retirement 
plan,  you  can  take  a  deduction  for  total  contributions  to 
one or more of your traditional IRAs of up to the lesser of:

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• 100% of your compensation.

This  limit  is  reduced  by  any  contributions  made  to  a 

section 501(c)(18) plan on your behalf.

Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA.  In the case of a 
married couple with unequal compensation who file a joint 
return,  the  deduction  for  contributions  to  the  traditional 
IRA of the spouse with less compensation is limited to the 
lesser of:

1. $7,000 ($8,000 if the spouse with the lower compen-

sation is age 50 or older), or

2. The total compensation includible in the gross income 
of both spouses for the year reduced by the following 
three amounts.

a. The IRA deduction for the year of the spouse with 

the greater compensation.

b. Any designated nondeductible contribution for the 

year made on behalf of the spouse with the 
greater compensation.

c. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on be-
half of the spouse with the greater compensation.

This  limit  is  reduced  by  any  contributions  to  a  section 
501(c)(18)  plan  on  behalf  of  the  spouse  with  the  lesser 
compensation.

Note:  If  you  were  divorced  or  legally  separated  (and 
didn’t  remarry)  before  the  end  of  the  year,  you  can’t  de-
duct  any  contributions  to  your  spouse's  IRA.  After  a  di-
vorce or legal separation, you can deduct only the contri-
butions  to  your  own  IRA.  Your  deductions  are  subject  to 
the rules for single individuals.

Covered  by  an  employer  retirement  plan.  If  you  or 
your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan 
at  any  time  during  the  year  for  which  contributions  were 
made,  your  deduction  may  be  further  limited.  This  is 
discussed  later  under  Limit  if  Covered  by  Employer  Plan. 

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

11

TIPTIPTIPPage 12 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source

10:50 - 15-Jan-2026

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Limits  on  the  amount  you  can  deduct  don’t  affect  the 
amount that can be contributed.

Are You Covered by an Employer 
Plan?

The Form W-2 you receive from your employer has a box 
used  to  indicate  whether  you  were  covered  for  the  year. 
The “Retirement plan” box should be checked if you were 
covered.

Reservists  and  volunteer  firefighters  should  also  see 

Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered, later.

If you aren’t certain whether you were covered by your 
employer's retirement plan, you should ask your employer.

Federal judges.  For purposes of the IRA deduction, fed-
eral judges are covered by an employer plan.

For Which Year(s) Are You Covered?

Special  rules  apply  to  determine  the  tax  years  for  which 
you  are  covered  by  an  employer  plan.  These  rules  differ 
depending  on  whether  the  plan  is  a  defined  contribution 
plan or a defined benefit plan.

Tax  year.  Your  tax  year  is  the  annual  accounting  period 
you use to keep records and report income and expenses 
on  your  income  tax  return.  For  almost  all  people,  the  tax 
year is the calendar year.

Defined  contribution  plan.  Generally,  you  are  covered 
by a defined contribution plan for a tax year if amounts are 
contributed or allocated to your account for the plan year 
that  ends  with  or  within  that  tax  year.  However,  also  see 
Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered, later.

A defined contribution plan is a plan that provides for a 
separate account for each person covered by the plan. In 
a defined contribution plan, the amount to be contributed 
to  each  participant's  account  is  spelled  out  in  the  plan. 
The level of benefits actually provided to a participant de-
pends on the total amount contributed to that participant's 
account  and  any  earnings  and  losses  on  those  contribu-
include 
tions.  Types  of  defined  contribution  plans 
profit-sharing  plans,  stock  bonus  plans,  and  money  pur-
chase pension plans.

Example.  Company A has a money purchase pension 
plan. Its plan year is from July 1 to June 30. The plan pro-
vides  that  contributions  must  be  allocated  as  of  June  30. 
An employee leaves Company A on December 31, 2024. 
The  contribution  for  the  plan  year  ending  on  June  30, 
2025, is made February 15, 2026. Because an amount is 
contributed  to  the  employee’s  account  for  the  plan  year, 
this  employee  is  covered  by  the  plan  for  their  2025  tax 
year.

Note:  A special rule applies to certain plans in which it 
isn’t possible to determine if an amount will be contributed 
to your account for a given plan year. If, for a plan year, no 
amounts have been allocated to your account that are at-
employee 
tributable 

contributions, 

employer 

to 

contributions,  or  forfeitures,  by  the  last  day  of  the  plan 
year, and contributions are discretionary for the plan year, 
you aren’t covered for the tax year in which the plan year 
ends.  If,  after  the  plan  year  ends,  the  employer  makes  a 
contribution for that plan year, you are covered for the tax 
year in which the contribution is made.

Example.  You  were  covered  by  a  profit-sharing  plan 
and  left  the  company  on  December  31,  2024.  The  plan 
year  runs  from  July  1  to  June  30.  Under  the  terms  of  the 
plan, employer contributions don’t have to be made, but if 
they are made, they are contributed to the plan before the 
due date for filing the company's tax return. Such contribu-
tions are allocated as of the last day of the plan year, and 
allocations  are  made  to  the  accounts  of  individuals  who 
have  any  service  during  the  plan  year.  As  of  June  30, 
2025,  no  contributions  were  made  that  were  allocated  to 
the June 30, 2025, plan year, and no forfeitures had been 
allocated within the plan year. In addition, as of that date, 
the  company  wasn’t  obligated  to  make  a  contribution  for 
such  plan  year,  and  it  was  impossible  to  determine 
whether or not a contribution would be made for the plan 
year.  On  December  31,  2025,  the  company  decided  to 
contribute  to  the  plan  for  the  plan  year  ending  June  30, 
2025. That contribution was made on February 15, 2026. 
You are an active participant in the plan for your 2026 tax 
year but not for your 2025 tax year.

No  vested  interest.  If  an  amount  is  allocated  to  your 
account for a plan year, you are covered by that plan even 
if  you  have  no  vested  interest  in  (legal  right  to)  the  ac-
count.

Defined benefit plan.  If you are eligible to participate in 
your employer's defined benefit plan for the plan year that 
ends  within  your  tax  year,  you  are  covered  by  the  plan. 
This rule applies even if you:

• Declined to participate in the plan,
• Didn’t make a required contribution, or
• Didn’t perform the minimum service required to accrue 

a benefit for the year.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  any  plan  that  isn’t  a  defined 
contribution  plan.  In  a  defined  benefit  plan,  the  level  of 
benefits to be provided to each participant is spelled out in 
the  plan.  The  plan  administrator  figures  the  amount  nee-
ded to provide those benefits, and those amounts are con-
tributed to the plan. Defined benefit plans include pension 
plans and annuity plans.

Example.  You are an employee of Company B and are 
eligible to participate in Company B's defined benefit plan, 
which has a July 1 to June 30 plan year. You leave Com-
pany B on December 31, 2024. Because you are eligible 
to participate in the plan for its year ending June 30, 2025, 
you are covered by the plan for your 2025 tax year.

No vested interest.  If you accrue a benefit for a plan 
year, you are covered by that plan even if you have no ves-
ted interest in (legal right to) the accrual.

12

Chapter 1 Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

