2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Administer once daily. Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated. ( 2)
Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg. ( 2.1)
Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. ( 2.2)
Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. ( 2.3)
Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. ( 2)

2.1 Hypertension

Adults:The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Adjust dosage at weekly (or longer) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved. In general, the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after 1 week of therapy. Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied.

Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age:The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablet is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets have not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] .

2.2 Angina Pectoris

Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily, given in a single dose. Gradually increase the dosage at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is a pronounced slowing of the heart rate. Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] .

2.3 Heart Failure

Dosage must be individualized and closely monitored during up-titration. Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, stabilize the dose of other heart failure drug therapy. The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablet is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12.5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure. Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If patients experience symptomatic bradycardia, reduce the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If transient worsening of heart failure occurs, consider treating with increased doses of diuretics, lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets or temporarily discontinuing it. The dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized.

2.4 Administration

Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are scored and can be divided; however, do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

25 mg tablets: White to off-white, oval shaped, film coated scored tablets, debossed with I and 25 on either side of the score on one side and score on the other side.

Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: 25 mg. (3)