Publication 501

Dependents,
Standard
Deduction,
and Filing
Information

For use in preparing
2025 Returns

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Contents

What’s New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Who Must File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Who Should File

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Filing Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Dependents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Social Security Numbers (SSNs) for

Dependents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Standard Deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

2025 Standard Deduction Tables . . . . 24

Enhanced Deduction for Seniors . . . . 26

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Index

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

What’s New
Who must file. In some cases, the amount of
income you can receive before you must file a
tax return has increased. Table 1 shows the fil-
ing requirements for most taxpayers.

Standard deduction increased. The stand-
ard deduction for taxpayers who don’t itemize
their deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040) is
higher for 2025 than it was for 2024. The
amount depends on your filing status. You can
use the 2025 Standard Deduction Tables near
the end of this publication to figure your stand-
ard deduction.

Enhanced deduction for seniors. Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers who are age 65 or older may
be eligible for the enhanced deduction for se-
niors. The maximum amount of the deduction is
$6,000 ($12,000 if married filing jointly and both
spouses are eligible). See Enhanced Deduction
for Seniors, later, for more information.

Trump accounts and new Form 4547. Re-
cent legislation allows parents, guardians, and
other authorized individuals to elect to establish
a new type of individual retirement account,
called a Trump account, for the exclusive benefit
of certain children. If the child was born after
2024 and before 2029, is a U.S. citizen, and
meets certain other requirements, the author-
ized individual may also elect to receive a
$1,000 pilot program contribution to the child’s
Trump account. Both elections can be made on
Form 4547, which can be filed at the same time
as the authorized individual’s 2025 income tax
return. For more information on Trump ac-
counts, and to learn how to make these elec-
tions, see Form 4547 and its instructions.

Feb 4, 2026

Publication 501 (2025) Catalog Number 15000U
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Table 1. 2025 Filing Requirements Chart for Most Taxpayers

AND at the end of 2025 you
were...^*

THEN file a return
if your gross
income was at
least...^**

IF your filing status is...

single

head of household

under 65

65 or older

under 65

65 or older

married filing jointly^***

under 65 (both spouses)

65 or older (one spouse)

65 or older (both spouses)

married filing separately

any age

qualifying surviving spouse

under 65

65 or older

$15,750

$17,750

$23,625

$25,625

$31,500

$33,100

$34,700

$5

$31,500

$33,100

* If you were born before January 2, 1961, you’re considered to be 65 or older at the
end of 2025. (If your spouse died in 2025, see Death of spouse, later. If you’re
preparing a return for someone who died in 2025, see Death of taxpayer, later.)

** Gross income means all income you receive in the form of money, goods,
property, and services that isn’t exempt from tax, including any income from sources
outside the United States or from the sale of your main home (even if you can exclude
part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits unless (a) you’re married
filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time during 2025, or (b)
one-half of your social security benefits plus your other gross income and any
tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b)
applies, see the Instructions for Form 1040 to figure the taxable part of social security
benefits you must include in gross income. Gross income includes gains, but not
losses, reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D. Gross income from a business means,
for example, the amount on Schedule C, line 7; or Schedule F, line 9. But in figuring
gross income, don’t reduce your income by any losses, including any loss on
Schedule C, line 7; or Schedule F, line 9.

*** If you didn’t live with your spouse at the end of 2025 (or on the date your spouse
died) and your gross income was at least $5, you must file a return regardless of your
age.

Reminders
Future developments. Information about any
future developments affecting Pub. 501 (such
as legislation enacted after we release it) will be
posted at IRS.gov/Pub501.

Taxpayer identification number for aliens. If
you are a nonresident or resident alien and you
don’t have and aren’t eligible to get a social se-
curity number (SSN), you must apply for an indi-
vidual taxpayer identification number (ITIN).
Your spouse may also need an ITIN if your
spouse doesn’t have and isn’t eligible to get an
SSN. See Form W-7, Application for IRS Indi-
vidual Taxpayer Identification Number. Also see
Social Security Numbers (SSNs) for Depend-
ents, later.

Photographs of missing children. The Inter-
nal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
National Center
for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise
be blank. You can help bring these children
home by looking at the photographs and calling

1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you rec-
ognize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses some tax rules that
affect every person who may have to file a fed-
eral income tax return. It answers some basic
questions: who must file, who should file, what
filing status to use, who qualifies as a depend-
ent, and the amount of the standard deduction.

Who Must File explains who must file an in-
come tax return. If you have little or no gross in-
come, reading this section will help you decide
if you have to file a return.

Who Should File helps you decide if you
should file a return, even if you aren’t required to
do so.

Filing Status helps you determine which fil-
ing status to use. Filing status is important in
determining whether you must file a return and
whether you may claim certain deductions and
credits. It also helps determine your standard
deduction and tax rate.

Dependents explains

the difference be-
tween a qualifying child and a qualifying rela-
tive. Other topics include the SSN requirement

for dependents, the rules for multiple support
agreements, and the rules for divorced or sepa-
rated parents.

Standard Deduction gives the rules and dol-
lar amounts for the standard deduction—a ben-
efit for taxpayers who don’t itemize their deduc-
tions. This section also discusses the standard
deduction for taxpayers who are blind or age 65
or older, the enhanced deduction for seniors, as
well as special rules that limit the standard de-
duction available to dependents. In addition,
this section helps you decide whether you
would be better off taking the standard deduc-
tion or itemizing your deductions.

How To Get Tax Help explains how to get tax

help from the IRS.

This publication is for U.S. citizens and resi-
dent aliens only. If you are a resident alien for
the entire year, you must follow the same tax
rules that apply to U.S. citizens. The rules to de-
termine if you are a resident or nonresident
alien are discussed in chapter 1 of Pub. 519.

Nonresident aliens. If you were a nonresident
alien at any time during the year, the rules and
tax forms that apply to you may be different from
those that apply to U.S. citizens. See Pub. 519.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and sug-
gestions for future editions.

You can send us comments

through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instruc-
tions, and publications. Don’t send tax ques-
tions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS In-
teractive Tax Assistant page at
IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and pub-
lications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to or-
der current forms, instructions, and publica-
tions; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve al-
ready sent us. You can get forms and publica-
tions faster online.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

559

559 Survivors, Executors, and
Administrators

2

Publication 501 (2025)