Publication 554

Tax Guide
for Seniors

For use in preparing
2025 Returns

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 554, such as
it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub554.

legislation enacted after

What’s New
Enhanced deduction for seniors. Beginning in 2025,
taxpayers who are age 65 or older may be eligible for the
enhanced deduction for seniors. The maximum amount of
the deduction is $6,000 per person ($12,000 if married fil-
ing jointly and both spouses are eligible). For more infor-
mation, see Enhanced Deduction for Seniors, later.
Standard deduction amount increased. For 2025, the
standard deduction amount has been increased for all fil-
ers. The amounts are:

• Single or Married filing separately—$15,750;
• Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving

spouse—$31,500; and

• Head of household—$23,625.
Alternative minimum tax (AMT) exemption increased.
The AMT exemption amount has increased to $88,100
($137,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving
spouse; $68,500 if married filing separately).
Earned income credit. The maximum amount of income
you can earn and still get the credit has changed. You may
be able to take the credit if you earn less than:

• $19,104 ($26,214 if married filing jointly), don’t have a
qualifying child, and are at least 25 years old and un-
der age 65;

• $50,434 ($57,554 if married filing jointly), and you

have one qualifying child;

• $57,310 ($64,430 if married filing jointly), and you

have two qualifying children; or

• $61,555 ($68,675 if married filing jointly), and you

have three or more qualifying children.

For more information, see Earned Income Credit, later.
Standard mileage rate. For 2025, the standard mileage
rate allowed for operating expenses for a car when you
use it for medical reasons is 21 cents a mile.

Reminders
Increase in required minimum distribution age. If you
reach age 72 in 2023 or later and have funds in a tradi-
tional IRA or a traditional SIMPLE IRA, the required begin-
ning date for your first required minimum distribution is
April 1 of the year following the year in which you reach
age 73.
Maximum age for traditional IRA contributions. The
age restriction for contributions to a traditional IRA has
been eliminated.

Jan 16, 2026

Publication 554 (2025) Catalog Number 15102R
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Qualified disaster tax relief. Special rules provide for
tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from certain re-
tirement plans for taxpayers who suffered economic loss
as a result of a qualified disaster. See Form 8915-F, Quali-
fied Disaster Retirement Plan Distributions and Repay-
ments, for more information.

Form 1040-SR. Form 1040-SR, U.S. Income Tax Return
for Seniors, was introduced in 2019. You can use this form
if you are age 65 or older at the end of 2025. The form
generally mirrors Form 1040. However, the Form 1040-SR
has larger text and some helpful tips for older taxpayers.
See the Instructions for Form 1040 for more information.

Tax return preparers. Choose your preparer carefully. If
you pay someone to prepare your return, the preparer is
required, under the law, to sign the return and fill in the
other blanks in the Paid Preparer Use Only section of your
return. Remember, however, that you are still responsible
for the accuracy of every item entered on your return. If
there is any underpayment, you are responsible for paying
it, plus any interest and penalty that may be due.

Third party designee. You can check the “Yes” box in
the Third Party Designee area of your return to authorize
the IRS to discuss your return with your preparer, a friend,
a family member, or any other person you choose. This al-
lows the IRS to call the person you identified as your des-
ignee to answer any questions that may arise during the
processing of your return. It also allows your designee to
perform certain actions. See your income tax return in-
structions for details.

Employment tax withholding. Your wages are subject
to withholding for income tax, social security tax, and
Medicare tax even if you are receiving social security ben-
efits.

Social security benefits information. Social security
beneficiaries may quickly and easily obtain various infor-
mation from the Social Security Administration’s (SSA’s)
website with a my Social Security account, including get-
ting a replacement Form SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S. For
more information, go to SSA.gov/myaccount. See Obtain-
ing social security information, later.

Photographs of missing children. The Internal Reve-
nue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
1-800-THE-LOST
and
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

calling

Introduction
The purpose of this publication is to provide a general
overview of selected topics that are of interest to older tax-
payers. This publication will help you determine if you
need to file a return and, if so, what items to report on your
return. Each topic is discussed only briefly, so you will find
references to other free IRS publications that provide
more detail on these topics if you need it.

Table I has a list of questions you may have about filing
your federal tax return. To the right of each question is the
location of the answer in this publication. Also, at the back
of this publication, there is an index to help you search for
the topic you need.

While most federal income tax laws apply equally to all
taxpayers, regardless of age, there are some provisions
that give special treatment to older taxpayers. The follow-
ing are some examples.

• Higher gross income threshold for filing. You must
be age 65 or older at the end of the year to get this
benefit. You are considered age 65 on the day before
your 65th birthday. Therefore, you are considered age
65 at the end of the year if your 65th birthday is on or
before January 1 of the following year.

• Higher standard deduction. If you don’t itemize de-
ductions, you are entitled to a higher standard deduc-
tion if you are age 65 or older at the end of the year.
You are considered age 65 at the end of the year if
your 65th birthday is on or before January 1 of the fol-
lowing year.

• Enhanced deduction for seniors. If you are age 65
or older at the end of the year, you may be eligible for
the enhanced deduction for seniors. You are consid-
ered age 65 at the end of the year if your 65th birthday
is on or before January 1 of the following year. To de-
termine if you qualify and how to figure this deduction,
see Enhanced Deduction for Seniors, later.

• Credit for the elderly or the disabled. If you qualify,
you may benefit from the credit for the elderly or the
disabled. To determine if you qualify and how to figure
this credit, see Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled,
later.

Return preparation assistance. The IRS wants to make
it easier for you to file your federal tax return. You may find
it helpful to visit a Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
(VITA), Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE), or American
Association of Retired Persons (AARP) Foundation
Tax-Aide site near you.

Volunteer Income Tax Assistance and Tax Coun-
seling for the Elderly. These programs provide free help
for low-income taxpayers and taxpayers age 60 or older to
prepare and file their returns. For the VITA/TCE site near-
est you, contact your local IRS office. For more informa-
tion, see Preparing and filing your tax return under How To
Get Tax Help, later.

AARP Foundation Tax-Aide. This program offers free
tax preparation and has thousands of locations in neigh-
borhood libraries, malls, banks, community centers, and
senior centers annually during the filing season. Go to
AARP.org/TaxAide
888-AARP-NOW
call
(888-227-7669) for more information.

or

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue

through

2

Publication 554 (2025)