Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Oshkosh, Wisconsin

Accident Number:

CEN23FA320

Date & Time:

July 25, 2023, 07:33 Local

Registration:

N9549

Aircraft:

Heath V-Strut

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Loss of control in flight

Injuries:

1 Minor

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

Shortly after takeoff the pilot turned the airplane to avoid flying over the perpendicular runway.
He reported that during the turn the airplane stopped climbing. The pilot aimed the airplane
toward a field and attempted a forced landing. During the landing the airplane came to rest
inverted, which resulted in substantial damage to the fuselage, empennage, and both wings.

One witness stated that the airplane “looked sluggish,” with the nose of the airplane high.
Several witnesses observed the left wing dip before the airplane descended below the tree line.
Security video showed the left wing dropped and the airplane impacted the ground in a left-
wing-low attitude.

A postaccident examination of the engine, flight controls, and related systems revealed no
mechanical failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operations. The
splintered damage to the propeller blade was consistent with power and rotation at the time of
impact. The pilot also reported that there was nothing mechanically wrong with the airplane at
the time of the accident.

Weather conditions at the time of the accident were conducive for serious icing at glide power.
However, investigators were not able to determine if a partial loss of engine power due to the
accumulation of carburetor icing during the ground taxi may have resulted in the loss of climb
performance after takeoff.

Given the witness description and the footage captured by the security camera, it is likely that
the pilot failed to maintain adequate airspeed during the initial climb and turn, which resulted in
the exceedance of the airplane’s critical angle of attack and an aerodynamic stall and a
subsequent loss of control.

Page 1 of 7
Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot’s failure to maintain adequate airspeed and his exceedance of the airplane’s critical
angle of attack, which resulted in an aerodynamic stall.

Findings

Aircraft

Angle of attack - Capability exceeded

Personnel issues

Aircraft control - Pilot

Page 2 of 7

CEN23FA320
Factual Information

History of Flight

Initial climb

Initial climb

Loss of control in flight (Defining event)

Aerodynamic stall/spin

Uncontrolled descent

Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)

On July 25, 2023, about 0733 central daylight time, a Heath V-Strut, N9549, was substantially
damaged when it was involved in an accident at Wittman Regional Airport (OSH), Oshkosh,
Wisconsin. The pilot sustained serious injuries. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code
of Federal Regulations Part 91 personal flight.

According to one witness, after an extensive taxi, the airplane used about 200 ft of the runway
to raise the tail of the airplane and about 1,000 ft of runway to become airborne. The witness
stated that the airplane “looked sluggish” after takeoff, with the nose of the airplane high. The
airplane started a left turn and then the left wing dipped, and the airplane descended below the
tree line. Security video showed the airplane descend in a relatively flat pitch attitude. The left
wing dropped, and the airplane impacted the ground in a left-wing-low attitude. The airplane
continued forward onto the engine and propeller, nosed over, and came to rest inverted.

According to the pilot he had just departed runway 36L and the climb rate was as expected. He
turned the airplane 150° as instructed during his briefing to avoid runway 9/27. During the turn,
the airplane stopped climbing and exhibited a decrease in performance. The pilot reported that
he aimed the airplane toward a clearing past the trees and attempted a landing to the field.

The airplane impacted a field adjacent to a commercial building about 1,000 ft east of runway
36L. The initial impact point contained fragmented wood consistent with the wing tip. The
main wreckage was located just east of the initial impact point and included both wings, the
empennage, fuselage, and engine (see Figure 1).

Page 3 of 7

CEN23FA320
Figure 1. Airplane wreckage.

Aileron cable continuity was confirmed for both the right and left aileron, from the respective
aileron inboard to the flight control stick. Control continuity was confirmed from the rudder
inboard to the rudder pedals and from the elevator inboard to the flight control stick.

The engine and propeller assembly remained attached to the fuselage at the firewall. The
wooden Watson propeller blade was splintered consistent with impact on each side of the blade
and contained grass and vegetation imbedded within the fracture. The splintered pieces of the
propeller blade were found forward of the main wreckage. The gascolator and bowl remained
attached at the firewall and contained fuel. Nothing mechanical was noted with the engine or
related systems that would have precluded normal engine function.

A review of the icing probability chart contained within FAA Special Airworthiness Information
Bulletin CE-09-35 showed that the atmospheric conditions at the time of the accident were
conducive for icing at glide power.

Page 4 of 7

CEN23FA320
Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

43,Male

Single

Lap only

No

Medical Certification:

Class 3 Without
waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

July 6, 2022

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

June 16, 2023

Flight Time:

213 hours (Total, all aircraft), 0.4 hours (Total, this make and model), 144 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 8 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 1.6 hours (Last 30 days, all aircraft)

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Year of Manufacture:

Heath

V-Strut

2002

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

Airworthiness Certificate:

Experimental (Special)

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

N9549

Airplane

Yes

151

1

Date/Type of Last Inspection: August 7, 2022 Condition

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

675 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

100 Hrs

Engine Manufacturer:

Continental

ELT:

Not installed

Engine Model/Series:

A-40

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Rated Power:

40 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Page 5 of 7

CEN23FA320
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KOSH,785 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

0 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

07:53 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

175°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Wind Speed/Gusts:

Clear

None

/

Wind Direction:

Visibility

4 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

/

/

Altimeter Setting:

30.07 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

22°C / 19°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

Moderate - None - Haze

Departure Point:

Oshkosh, WI (KOSH)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Oshkosh, WI (KOSH)

Type of Clearance:

None

None

Departure Time:

07:33 Local

Type of Airspace:

Class D

Airport Information

Airport:

Wittman Regional Airport OSH

Runway Surface Type:

Airport Elevation:

808 ft msl

Runway Surface Condition:

Rough;Vegetation

Runway Used:

Runway Length/Width:

IFR Approach:

None

VFR Approach/Landing:

Forced landing

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Minor

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 Minor

Latitude, Longitude:

43.992052,-88.552564

Page 6 of 7

CEN23FA320
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Rodi, Jennifer

Additional Participating
Persons:

Peter Hupfer; FAA FSDO; Milwaukee, WI
Tim Spreen; FAA FSDO; Milwaukee, WI

Original Publish Date:

March 12, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192700

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

CEN23FA320