Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

New London, North Carolina

Accident Number:

ERA23LA310

Date & Time:

July 24, 2023, 16:30 Local

Registration:

N98134

Aircraft:

Piper PA-28-140

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Loss of engine power (partial)

Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 Minor

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Instructional

Analysis

The student pilot and flight instructor reported that the engine lost partial power after takeoff,
when the airplane was climbing. The instructor assumed control of the airplane, attempted to
restore power, and performed a forced landing. The airplane contacted trees and a powerline
during the landing.

Postaccident examination of the engine revealed that the exhaust valve in the No. 4 cylinder
was stuck in the open position. Based on this finding, it is likely that the partial loss of engine
power was the result of the No. 4 cylinder’s stuck exhaust valve.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

A partial loss of engine power due to the No. 4 cylinder’s stuck exhaust valve.

Recip engine power section - Damaged/degraded

Findings

Aircraft

Page 1 of 6
Factual Information

History of Flight

Enroute-climb to cruise

Loss of engine power (partial) (Defining event)

Emergency descent

Off-field or emergency landing

On July 24, 2023, about 1630 eastern daylight time, a Piper PA-28-140, N98134, was
substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident near New London, North Carolina.
The flight instructor sustained minor injuries and the student pilot was seriously injured. The
airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 instructional flight.

The instructional flight departed from Stanly County Airport (VUJ), Albemarle, North Carolina.
According to the flight instructor, everything was normal and “in the green” during the preflight
inspection, engine run-up and takeoff. During the subsequent climb, upon reaching 1,900 ft
mean sea level, the engine rpm started to drop. The flight instructor immediately took control
of the airplane and pitched for best glide speed while attempting to troubleshoot via the
checklist, but was unable to regain full power. The engine power remained at 1,000 rpm while
the propeller continued to rotate.

The flight instructor attempted to return to VUJ; however, the airplane was descending too
quickly, and he was unable to reach the airport. The instructor initiated a forced landing to a
field that was bordered by trees. The airplane impacted the treetops, then struck electrical
transmission wires and terrain before coming to rest on its nose partially inverted.

A Federal Aviation Administration inspector examined the wreckage and confirmed there was
substantial damage to the wings and fuselage. The right wing separated during impact and the
fuel tanks were breached. The fuselage was crushed forward from the engine compartment
into the cockpit. The airplane came to rest on its nose in an inverted attitude. The engine and
propeller were partially canted upwards and aft into the cockpit instrument panel. The
empennage was suspended by electrical transmission wires that were wrapped around the
stabilator.

Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed that the engine crankcase was
intact. The oil filter was opened revealing no foreign deposits or ferrous material. The oil
appeared dark brown in color and all lubricated components appeared to be well lubricated.

The fuel system was compromised during impact. The fuel selector was removed and tested
yielding normal action through its rotation and indents. No blockages were observed in the fuel
lines from the wings to the gascolator.

Page 2 of 6

ERA23LA310
During the engine continuity check, compression was obtained on cylinder Nos. 1, 2, and 3; no
compression was obtained on No. 4. The No. 4 cylinder exhaust valve was stuck in the open
position but became unstuck during manipulation. There was no thermal or impact damage
noted to the left side of the engine. Additionally, the Nos. 3 and 4 spark plugs contained minor
carbon build-up on the electrodes. The remainder of the spark plugs had normal coloration as
compared to the Champion Aerospace AV-27 Check-A-Plug chart. The magnetos were
mechanically manipulated with a drill and produced blue/purple spark at each of the posts.

The 2-blade metal propeller blades showed evidence of minor chordwise scraping and one
blade was bent uniformly aft mid span. The propeller remained attached to the flange and
crankshaft and the propeller spinner was crushed inwards in a relatively flat pattern indicative
of reduced power.

No additional evidence was discovered to indicate a preexisting mechanical malfunction or
failure that would have precluded normal operation. The airplane’s maintenance logs indicated
that during the last annual inspection eight months before the accident, the engine passed a
cylinder compression check, and all spark plugs were serviced. A week before the accident, the
Nos. 1 and 3 pushrod seals were replaced, and leak tested, and a new left magneto was
installed. At that time, the engine had a total operating time of 3,040 hours and the time since
the last major overhaul was 847 hours.

Flight instructor Information

Certificate:

Commercial; Flight instructor

Age:

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s):

Instrument Rating(s):

Airplane

Instructor Rating(s):

Airplane single-engine; Instrument
airplane

Medical Certification:

Class 1 Without
waivers/limitations

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

21,Male

Right

Lap only

Yes

Last FAA Medical Exam:

November 9, 2022

Occupational Pilot:

Yes

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Flight Time:

672 hours (Total, all aircraft), 39 hours (Total, this make and model), 615 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 232 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 83 hours (Last 30 days, all aircraft),
1 hours (Last 24 hours, all aircraft)

Page 3 of 6

ERA23LA310
Student pilot Information

Certificate:

Student

Airplane Rating(s):

None

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

32,Male

Left

Lap only

Yes

Medical Certification:

Class 1 With waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

July 6, 2023

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Flight Time:

38 hours (Total, all aircraft), 3 hours (Total, this make and model), 1 hours (Pilot In Command,
all aircraft), 38 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft)

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Piper

PA-28-140

Year of Manufacture:

1969

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

N98134

Airplane

Airworthiness Certificate:

Normal

Serial Number:

28-26064

Landing Gear Type:

Tricycle

Seats:

4

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

July 11, 2023 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

2150 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Airframe Total Time:

ELT:

Installed, activated, did not
aid in locating accident

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Engine Manufacturer:

Lycoming

Engine Model/Series:

O-320

Rated Power:

160 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Page 4 of 6

ERA23LA310
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

VUJ,609 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

0 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

16:25 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

331°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Scattered / 3700 ft AGL

Visibility

10 miles

Lowest Ceiling:

Wind Speed/Gusts:

4 knots / None

Wind Direction:

250°

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A / N/A

Altimeter Setting:

30.12 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

31°C / 21°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Albemarle, NC (VUJ)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Albemarle, NC (VUJ)

Type of Clearance:

None

None

Departure Time:

16:15 Local

Type of Airspace:

Class D

Airport Information

Airport:

STANLY COUNTY VUJ

Runway Surface Type:

Asphalt

Airport Elevation:

609 ft msl

Runway Used:

4R/22L

Runway Surface Condition:

Rough;Vegetation

IFR Approach:

None

Runway Length/Width:

5499 ft / 100 ft

VFR Approach/Landing:

Forced landing

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 Minor

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 Minor

Latitude, Longitude:

35.416694,-80.150791(est)

Page 5 of 6

ERA23LA310
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Mccarter, Lawrence

Additional Participating
Persons:

Bruce Codwise; FAA/FSDO; Charlotte, NC

Original Publish Date:

September 18, 2024

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192705

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 6 of 6

ERA23LA310