Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Waupun, Wisconsin

Accident Number:

CEN23LA322

Date & Time:

July 22, 2023, 19:40 Local

Registration:

N415JC

Aircraft:

Ercoupe 415-D

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Fuel starvation

Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 None

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

During a cross-country flight, the engine rpm dropped and the engine lost power. The pilot
attempted to restore engine power without success. The pilot established that the engine was
likely starved of fuel and elected to perform a forced landing into a marsh. The airplane
sustained substantial damage to the fuselage, empennage, and both wings.

The pilot stated that they departed with about 28 gallons of fuel on board. After the airplane
was fueled, the line technician placed the vented fuel cap on backwards. The pilot elected to
continue the flight to the destination and address the misinstallation upon arrival.

After the accident all of the fuel tanks were empty; however, law enforcement reported that an
unknown quantity of fuel had leaked from the left fuel tank. A postaccident examination
confirmed that the vented fuel cap was on backwards on the outboard fuel tank. An
examination of the remaining fuel system and the engine revealed no mechanical anomalies
that would have precluded normal operations.

The lack of venting from the misinstalled fuel cap likely precluded fuel from flowing from that
fuel tank, which resulted in a loss of engine power due to fuel starvation.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

Page 1 of 6
The pilot’s decision to take off without correcting a misinstalled fuel cap, which resulted in a
loss of engine power due to fuel starvation caused by improper venting of the fuel system.

Findings

Personnel issues

Decision making/judgment - Pilot

Aircraft

(general) - Incorrect use/operation

Page 2 of 6

CEN23LA322
Factual Information

History of Flight

Enroute-cruise

Fuel starvation (Defining event)

Emergency descent

Off-field or emergency landing

On July 22, 2023, about 1940 central daylight time, an Ercoupe 415-D, N415JC, was
substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident near Waupun, Wisconsin. The pilot
sustained serious injuries, and the pilot-rated passenger sustained no injuries. The airplane
was operated under the provisions of Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 as a
personal flight.

According to the pilot and passenger, they had been en route for about two hours when the
engine rpms decreased. The pilot immediately turned the carburetor heat on and cycled the
engine throttle control. The engine would sputter and catch but the rpms would decrease
again. The engine then lost total power. The passenger stated that the sight gauge on the
center (header) fuel tank indicated that the tank was empty.

The pilot stated that attempts to restart the engine were not successful and he determined
that the engine was likely starved of fuel. The pilot performed a forced landing to a marsh. The
airplane came to rest upright with substantial damage to the fuselage, both wings, and the
empennage.

The flight originated in Conroe, Texas, and was en route to Oshkosh, Wisconsin. The
passenger stated that they stopped for fuel in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He stated that during the
fueling the center (header) tank was full with six gallons of fuel, both main fuel tanks were full
with nine gallons of fuel each, and each auxiliary tank had two gallons of fuel added. They
estimated that they had over four hours of fuel on board when they departed. This was the
same fuel load they had used for their entire trip.

The pilot stated that after fueling the airplane, the line technician placed the vented fuel cap on
the outboard tank backwards. The pilot stated further that it would be about an hour of work to
reposition the fuel cap without damaging the airplane, so he chose to address the issue after
the airplane flew to and arrived at Oshkosh.

According to law enforcement, both main fuel tanks were empty on scene; however, there was
a strong smell of fuel in the marsh. The auxiliary fuel tanks were not checked on scene. The
passenger and one first responder reported chemical burns on their feet and legs after they
stood in the marsh adjacent to the airplane. The left main fuel tank was compromised and the
gascolator was impact damaged.

A postaccident examination of the engine revealed no mechanical anomalies that would have
precluded normal operations. All of the fuel tanks were empty. An examination of the fuel

Page 3 of 6

CEN23LA322
system revealed that the fuel cap on the left auxiliary fuel tank was backwards with the vent
facing the trailing edge of the wing.

Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

76

Left

4-point

No

Medical Certification:

BasicMed Without
waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

May 19, 2021

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

October 29, 2021

Flight Time:

1395 hours (Total, all aircraft), 1326 hours (Total, this make and model), 28 hours (Last 90 days,
all aircraft), 16 hours (Last 30 days, all aircraft), 7.4 hours (Last 24 hours, all aircraft)

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Year of Manufacture:

Ercoupe

415-D

1946

Airworthiness Certificate:

Normal

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Tricycle

Seats:

N415JC

Airplane

3728

2

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

September 15, 2022 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

1400 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Airframe Total Time:

2378.12 Hrs as of last
inspection

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Engine Manufacturer:

Continental

ELT:

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Engine Model/Series:

C85

Rated Power:

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Page 4 of 6

CEN23LA322
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KFLD,796 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

12 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

19:53 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

69°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

8 knots / None

Wind Direction:

200°

Visibility

10 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

/

/

Altimeter Setting:

29.83 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

23°C / 16°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Cedar Rapids, IA (KCID)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Oshkosh, WI (KOSH)

Type of Clearance:

None

None

Departure Time:

17:45 Local

Type of Airspace:

Class G

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 None

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

N/A

Ground Injuries:

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 Serious, 1 None

Latitude, Longitude:

43.696,-88.758

Page 5 of 6

CEN23LA322
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Rodi, Jennifer

Additional Participating
Persons:

Peter Hupfer; FAA FSDO; Milwaukee, WI
Tim Spreen; FAA FSDO; Milwaukee, WI

Original Publish Date:

February 26, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192706

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 6 of 6

CEN23LA322