Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Clara City, Minnesota

Accident Number:

CEN23LA324

Date & Time:

July 25, 2023, 07:11 Local

Registration:

N291DL

Aircraft:

AIR TRACTOR INC AT-402B

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Low altitude operation/event

Injuries:

1 Fatal

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 137: Agricultural

Analysis

Airplane position data revealed that the pilot was performing agricultural application passes to
a corn field at the time of the accident. During an approach to the northwest, in a pattern
consistent with a clean-up pass, the empennage impacted the lowest transmission line on a
set of power lines along the perimeter of the field. The collision separated the rudder and
upper portion of the vertical stabilizer from the empennage, and the airplane subsequently
impacted the corn field about 350 ft from the power lines.

Postrecovery airframe and engine examinations did not reveal any anomalies consistent with a
preimpact failure or malfunction, or of the engine to produce rated power.

It is likely that the pilot was flying under the transmission lines at the end of the clean-up pass
and did not maintain clearance which resulted in an impact between the empennage and the
transmission line.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot’s failure to maintain clearance from a transmission line during an aerial application
flight.

Page 1 of 7
Findings

Personnel issues

Identification/recognition - Pilot

Environmental issues

Wire - Effect on equipment

Aircraft

Altitude - Not attained/maintained

Page 2 of 7

CEN23LA324
Factual Information

History of Flight

Maneuvering-low-alt flying

Low altitude operation/event (Defining event)

Uncontrolled descent

Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)

On July 25, 2023, about 0711 central daylight time, an Air Tractor AT-402B airplane, N291DL,
was substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident near Clara City, Minnesota.
The pilot initially survived the accident but later died from his injuries. The airplane was
operated as a Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 137 agricultural application flight.

According to GPS position data recovered from an onboard tracking device, the pilot departed
from a private airstrip about 0619. He flew about 3 miles north and completed multiple
application passes to a corn field in an east-west pattern. The pilot then made a pass from
north to south on the western side of the field near structures, consistent with a clean-up pass.
The airplane then made a left turn back toward the field. The final data point was recorded at
0711. At that time, the airplane was about 0.5 mile south of the field, at an altitude of 1,323 ft
mean sea level (msl). The accident site was northwest of the last recorded data point, at an
elevation of about 1,060 ft msl.

The airplane came to rest upright on a northwest heading, about 350 ft north of a set of power
lines. The upper portion of the vertical stabilizer and the rudder were separated from the
airplane and located in the vicinity of the power lines.

Pilot Information

Certificate:

Commercial

Age:

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): Helicopter

Instrument Rating(s):

Helicopter

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Medical Certification:

Class 1 Without
waivers/limitations

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

34,Male

Single

4-point

No

Yes

Last FAA Medical Exam:

August 26, 2022

Occupational Pilot:

Yes

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

March 25, 2022

Flight Time:

975 hours (Total, all aircraft), 110 hours (Total, this make and model), 445 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 145 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 104 hours (Last 30 days, all
aircraft)

Page 3 of 7

CEN23LA324
Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

AT-402B

Year of Manufacture:

2008

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

N291DL

Airplane

AIR TRACTOR INC

Registration:

Airworthiness Certificate:

Restricted (Special)

Serial Number:

402B-1199

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

1

Date/Type of Last Inspection: October 13, 2022 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

9170 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

104.9 Hrs

Engines:

1 Turbo prop

Airframe Total Time:

4033.3 Hrs at time of
accident

Engine Manufacturer:

Pratt & Whitney Canada

ELT:

Not installed

Engine Model/Series:

PT6A-34AG

Registered Owner:

Operator:

NORTHSTAR AERO SPRAY
INC

Rated Power:

680 Horsepower

NORTHSTAR AERO SPRAY
INC

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

Agricultural aircraft (137)

Operator Does Business As:

N/A

Operator Designator Code:

N/A

Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KMVE,1034 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

13 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

08:35 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

252°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

4 knots / 0 knots

Wind Direction:

180°

Visibility

7 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

/

/

Altimeter Setting:

29.98 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

23°C / 19°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Clara City, MN (PVT)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Clara City, MN (PVT)

Type of Clearance:

None

None

Departure Time:

06:19 Local

Type of Airspace:

Class G

Page 4 of 7

CEN23LA324
Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Fatal

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 Fatal

Latitude, Longitude:

45.036861,-95.408361

The set of power lines was oriented east-west along the south side of a road. The set
consisted of three transmission lines and one static line. The airplane struck the lower of the
three lines and appeared to have severed each of the conductors. The supporting power line
core remained intact.

The airplane sustained damage to the fuselage, engine mount, both wings, and the vertical
stabilizer. The rudder was separated and exhibited a torn gouge extending from the leading
edge to about mid-chord, consistent with impact to a power line.

Examination of the airframe did not reveal any indication of a preimpact structural failure or
flight control system anomaly. An engine examination revealed contact signatures to the
internal components consistent with an engine operating at the time of impact. No indication
of any preimpact mechanical engine anomalies were observed.

Medical and Pathological Information

The pilot’s last aviation medical examination was August 26, 2022. At that time, he reported no
medical conditions or medication use. He was issued a first-class medical certificate without
limitation.

After the accident, the pilot received medical care for multiple injuries sustained in the
accident. He later died in the hospital as a result of complications from his blunt force injuries.
According to the Midwest Medical Examiner’s Office Final Summary report, the pilot’s cause of
death was complications of blunt force injuries, and his manner of death was accident. At the
discretion of the medical examiner’s office, no autopsy was performed. No significant
preaccident medical condition was identified during the pilot’s hospitalization.

Hospital records indicated the pilot had a prescription for a medication containing oxycodone;
this was for 12 tablets in February 2023. A hospital blood screen for ethanol was negative. A
hospital drug screen performed on urine collected two days after the accident detected only

Page 5 of 7

CEN23LA324
oxycodone and opiates, which could be attributed to medications that had been administered
to the pilot during his postaccident medical care, as verified from hospital medication
administration records. FAA Forensic Sciences Laboratory testing of an antemortem serum
specimen labeled with the accident date did not detect oxycodone or other opiates.

Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Sorensen, Timothy

Additional Participating
Persons:

Daniel Sindt; FAA Flight Standards; Minneapolis, MN
Stephan Nelle; Air Tractor, Inc.; Olney, TX
Mathieu Renaud; Pratt & Whitney Canada; Saint-Hubert, Quebec
Beverley Harvey; Transportation Safety Board of Canada

Original Publish Date:

August 28, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192715

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 6 of 7

CEN23LA324
Page 7 of 7

CEN23LA324