1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE

Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.

Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED)

2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

•

For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity ( 2.1)

•

Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg ( 2.1)

•

Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day ( 2.1)

2.1 Dosage Information

For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day.
Based on effectiveness and toleration, the dose may be increased to a maximum recommended dose of 100 mg or decreased to 25 mg.

2.2 Use with Food

Sildenafil tablets may be taken with or without food.

2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations

Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ].
When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.2), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ].

2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions

Ritonavir
The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
CYP3A4 Inhibitors
Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients treated with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, or saquinavir) or erythromycin. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [ see Drug Interactions (7.4)and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations

Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].