1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE

Labetalol Hydrochloride is indicated in the management of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including beta adrenergic blockers.

Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC).

Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly.

Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal.

Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy.

Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide and loop diuretics.

Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets are a beta adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1)

2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

The recommended initial dosage is 100 mg twice daily, alone or added to a diuretic regimen. Titrate in increments of 100 mg twice daily every 2 or 3 days. Maintenance dosage is between 200 and 400 mg twice daily. ( 2.1)
Severe Hypertension: May require from 1,200 to 2,400mg per day, with or without thiazide diuretics. Titrate in increments not to exceed 200 mg twice daily. ( 2.2)
Elderly patients: Initiate at 100 mg twice daily. Titrate in increments of 100 mg twice daily as required for blood pressure control. Many elderly patients will require between 100 and 200 mg twice daily. ( 2.3)

2.1 Recommended Dosage

Labetalol Hydrochloride dosage must be individualized.

The recommended initial dosage of labetalol hydrochloride is 100 mg twice daily. Adjust dosage in increments of 100 mg twice daily at 2- to 3-day intervals based on response. The recommended maintenance dosage of labetalol hydrochloride is between 200 and 400 mg twice daily.