Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) – Federal statute imposing tax on employers to provide for payments of
unemployment compensation to workers who have lost their jobs. States and political subdivisions of a state are exempt from
paying FUTA, but under state unemployment law, most state and local government employees must be covered for state
unemployment insurance.

Fee-Based Public Official – A public official who receives and retains remuneration directly from members of the public, for
example, a justice of the peace. An official who receives payment for services from government funds in the form of a wage or
salary is not a fee-based public official, even if the compensation is called a fee.

FICA Replacement Plan – Alternate name for a public retirement system, as described in the regulations for Section 3121(b)(7)(F)
(See Treas. Reg. 31.3121(b)(7)-2). Refers to a pension, annuity, retirement or similar fund or system established by a state or political
subdivision for the purpose of providing retirement benefits to employees. See Public Retirement System.

Full Retirement Age (FRA) – The age at which unreduced Social Security benefits are payable. Depending on the date of birth,
an individual’s FRA ranges from 65 to 67.

Governmental Function – Activity normally associated with the authority of government, legislative, executive, judicial, such
as the control and prevention of crime, promoting the general welfare and providing for public safety. Income derived from any
essential governmental function is exempt from federal income tax under IRC Section 115.

Government Pension Offset (GPO) – A reduction in the Social Security benefits that applies to individuals who (1) receive a
government pension from work not covered for Social Security and (2) are eligible for Social Security as a spouse or widow(er).
Two-thirds of the government pension offsets any spouse’s or widow(er)’s Social Security benefit.

HI – Hospital Insurance (Medicare Part A).

Indian Tribal Government – The governing body of any federally recognized tribe, band, community, village or group of Indians
or Alaska Natives that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, with the Secretary of the Interior, to exercise governmental
functions under IRC Section 7701(a)(40). Under IRC Section 7871, an Indian tribal government is treated as a state for certain
purposes. Likewise, a subdivision of an Indian tribal government is treated as a political subdivision of a state if the subdivision
has been delegated the right to exercise one or more of the substantial governmental functions of the Indian tribal government.
However, a tribal government is not a “state” for purposes of Section 218 and is not eligible for a Section 218 Agreement.

Interstate Instrumentality – An independent legal entity organized by two or more states to carry out one or more
governmental functions. For purposes of a Section 218 Agreement, an interstate instrumentality has the status of a state.

IRC – Internal Revenue Code.

IRS – Internal Revenue Service.

Mandatory Exclusions – See Required Exclusions.

Mandatory Medicare Health Insurance – Medicare tax and coverage not included as part of a Section 218 Agreement;
imposed on all state and local government employees hired or rehired after March 31, 1986.

Mandatory Social Security – Required Social Security coverage for state and local government employees who are not
members of a public retirement system and who are not covered by a Section 218 Agreement; effective July 2, 1991.

Medicare – Federally established health insurance program for people age 65 and older and certain people with disabilities.
Part A (Hospital Insurance) is financed through employer and employee taxes on covered wages/self-employment or by individual
payment of monthly premiums. Part B (Supplemental Medical Insurance) is financed by individuals paying monthly premiums.

Medicare Qualified Government Employment (MQGE) – Services of state and local government employees subject to
Medicare tax but not to Social Security tax.

Modification – An amendment to an original Section 218 Agreement to extend coverage to additional groups of employees or to
implement changes in federal and state laws. Each modification, like the original agreement, is a legally binding document.

National Conference of State Social Security Administrators (NCSSSA) – Professional association of State Social
Security Administrators. These state officials are authorized by state law to administer Section 218 Agreements with the SSA and
are responsible for all other activities associated with federal and state laws addressing Social Security and Medicare coverage of
state and local public employers. Additional duties of individual State Administrators vary from state to state.

79