Lines 25, 27, and 29. Mark enters $3,000 APTC,
which is the total of lines 12 through 23, column (f), on
these lines and on his Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 1a.

Allocation of Policy Amounts
Among Three or More
Taxpayers

This section covers allocations of policy amounts (enroll-
ment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC)
among three or more taxpayers.

Before you read this section, first read Part IV—Alloca-
tion of Policy Amounts in the Form 8962 instructions.
Then, use the following instructions to complete Part IV of
Form 8962 if one qualified health plan covers individuals
from three or more tax families in the same month. Specifi-
cally, these instructions apply to:

• Taxpayers who must allocate policy amounts because
of a divorce or legal separation in 2025 and must also
allocate policy amounts with another taxpayer (for ex-
ample, a grandparent who includes in their tax family a
child enrolled with the former spouses);

• Taxpayers who must allocate policy amounts because
they are legally married but are not filing a joint return
(for example, filing their returns as married filing sepa-
rately), and must also allocate policy amounts with an-
other taxpayer (for example, a grandparent who in-
cludes in their tax family a child enrolled with the
spouses); and

• Other taxpayers who are including an individual in
their tax family who is enrolled in a qualified health
plan together with members of two or more other tax
families.

No APTC. If you or a member of your tax family is en-
rolled in a qualified health plan with members of two or
more other tax families and no APTC is paid for coverage
under the plan, use the instructions for Form 8962 under
Allocation Situation 3 to allocate the enrollment premiums
from the qualified health plan among the tax families. You
allocate the enrollment premiums in proportion to the
SLCSP premium that applies to each taxpayer who has a
coverage family member enrolled in the plan. For purpo-
ses of this enrollment premium allocation, only coverage
family members enrolled in the plan are considered in de-
termining the SLCSP premium that applies to each tax-
payer. You and the other taxpayers must complete column
(e) on the appropriate line in Part IV to allocate the enroll-
ment premiums to each family. Leave columns (f) and (g)
blank. See Missing or incorrect SLCSP premium on Form
1095-A under Line 10 in the Form 8962 instructions to de-
termine your applicable SLCSP premium to use for the al-
location.

Allocation Among Two Taxpayers
Who Divorced or Legally Separated in
2025 and One or More Other
Taxpayers

Use this section to allocate policy amounts from a quali-
fied health plan if you meet either of the following condi-
tions and no other allocations for the policy are necessary.
• You are allocating enrollment premiums, applicable

SLCSP premiums, and APTC with a former spouse as
a result of your divorce or legal separation in 2025 and
are also allocating amounts with another taxpayer who
is including an individual in their tax family who, when
you were married to the former spouse, was enrolled
in a qualified health plan with members of your and
your former spouse’s tax families.

• You are the taxpayer who is including in your tax family
an individual enrolled in the plan with tax family mem-
bers of taxpayers who must also allocate policy
amounts as a result of divorce or separation in 2025.

Example. Kara and David and their two children, Mer-
edith and Sam, enroll in a qualified health plan for 2025.
Kara and David were married at the beginning of 2025
and divorce in 2025. Meredith and Sam move in with their
grandmother, Lydia, in May of 2025. Lydia claims Meredith
and Sam as dependents on her 2025 income tax return.
Kara, David, and Lydia use this section to allocate policy
amounts to compute their respective PTC and reconcile
the PTC with the APTC paid.

Kara and David use the allocation method under Rules
for the Taxpayers Who Divorced or Legally Separated in
2025 and Are Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer next.
Lydia uses the allocation method under Rules for the
Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Taxpayers Who Divorced or
Legally Separated in 2025, later.

Rules for the Taxpayers Who Divorced or
Legally Separated in 2025 and Are Also
Allocating With Another Taxpayer

Use this allocation method if you divorced or legally sepa-
rated during the year and you must allocate policy
amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premi-
ums, and APTC) with your former spouse as well as with
another taxpayer who is including in their tax family an in-
dividual enrolled in a qualified health plan with members
of your and your former spouse’s tax families.

Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with your for-
mer spouse. You use this percentage to allocate the total
enrollment premiums, the applicable SLCSP premiums,
and APTC for coverage under the plan during the months
you were married. You will find these amounts on your
Form(s) 1095-A, Part III, columns A, B, and C, respec-
tively. You and your former spouse can allocate these
amounts using any percentage you agree on from -0- to
100, but you must allocate all amounts using the same
percentage. If you do not agree on a percentage, you and

28

Publication 974 (2025)
Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a per-
centage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).

Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a per-
centage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).

Columns (e), (f), and (g). Enter the decimal from

Worksheet C, line 5.

Rules for the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With
Taxpayers Who Divorced or Legally
Separated in 2025

Use this allocation method if you are including in your tax
family one or more individuals who were enrolled in a
qualified health plan with members of the tax families of
other taxpayers who must also allocate policy amounts as
a result of divorce or legal separation in 2025.

Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with one of
the former spouses. You may agree on any allocation per-
centage from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you
agreed on for every month during which this allocation rule
applies, or you may agree on different percentages for dif-
ferent months. However, you must use the same allocation
percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums,
applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If
you cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the alloca-
tion percentage is equal to the number of individuals you
include in your tax family for the tax year who were enrol-
led in the qualified health plan for which you are allocating
policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals
enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage is the per-
centage that applies to the amounts you must use to com-
pute the PTC and reconcile it with APTC. The former
spouse must compute the PTC and reconcile APTC using
the remaining amounts.

Step 2. Allocate the policy amounts with the second for-
mer spouse using the same rules as Step 1 above. Enter
the percentage on line 4 of Worksheet D.

Step 3. Complete Worksheet D below.

your former spouse must allocate 50% of each of these
amounts to each of you.

Step 2. Separately from the first allocation, determine an
allocation percentage with the taxpayer(s) who included in
their tax family the individual(s) enrolled in the plan with a
member of your tax family or a member of your former
spouse’s tax family. You may agree on any allocation per-
centage from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you
agreed on for every month that this allocation rule applies,
or you may agree on different percentages for different
months. However, you must use the same allocation per-
centage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums, ap-
plicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If you
cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation
percentage is equal to the number of individuals the other
taxpayer includes in their tax family for the tax year who
were enrolled in the plan for which you are allocating pol-
icy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals en-
rolled in the qualified health plan. The allocation percent-
age is the percentage that applies to the amounts the
other taxpayer must use to compute the PTC and recon-
cile it with APTC. You and your former spouse must com-
pute the PTC and reconcile APTC using the remaining
amounts.

Step 3. Complete Worksheet C below.
Worksheet C. Allocations for the Divorced or
Legally Separated Taxpayers

1.0

1. Enter as a decimal your percentage from

Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the

percentage(s) from Step 2 above allocated
to the other taxpayer(s).
Note: See Example 2, later, for details on
adding the percentages for multiple
taxpayers

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result as

a decimal. This is your allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . . . . 5.

Step 4. If you use the same percentage in Step 2 above
for every month to which this allocation method applies,
use only one of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the
allocation. If you use different percentages for different
months under Step 2, use a separate line in Part IV for
each allocation percentage. Complete the line as ex-
plained below.

Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.

Column (b). Enter the SSN of your former spouse.

Publication 974 (2025)

29
Kimberly’s Worksheet D. Taxpayer Allocating
With Divorced or Legally Separated
Taxpayers

1. Enter the decimal from line 1 of the

Worksheet C completed by one of the
former spouses from Step 1
above

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

2. Enter as a decimal the percentage

from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Multiply line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the decimal from line 1 of the

Worksheet C completed by the other
former spouse from Step 2
above

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

5. Enter as a decimal the percentage

from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Multiply line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Add line 3 and line 6. This is the

allocation percentage. Go to Step 4
below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

0.40

0.25

0.10

0.60

0.25

0.15

0.25

After completing Worksheet D, Kimberly completes

Form 8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.

Column (a). Kimberly enters

the Marketplace-as-

signed policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.

Column (b). Kimberly enters Kara’s SSN.

Column (c). Kimberly enters “01.”

Column (d). Kimberly enters “09.”

Columns (e), (f), and (g). Kimberly enters “0.25.”

After completing Part IV, Kimberly completes her Form
8962 in the same manner described for Lydia in Exam-
ple 1, earlier, but applies the different allocation percent-
age.

Allocation Among Taxpayers Who Are
Married But Not Filing a Joint Return
and One or More Other Taxpayers

Use this section if you meet either of the following condi-
tions and no other allocations for the policy are necessary.
• You are allocating enrollment premiums and APTC

with a spouse to whom you are legally married but not
filing a joint return in 2025 and you are also allocating
enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums,
and APTC with another taxpayer who is including in
their tax family an individual who was enrolled in a
qualified health plan with members of your and your
spouse’s tax families.

• You are the taxpayer who is including in your tax family
an individual who was enrolled in the plan with tax
family members of taxpayers who must also allocate
policy amounts because the taxpayers are legally
married but not filing a joint return in 2025.

Example. Pat and Jamie were married for all of 2025
and have three children, Jason, Alicia, and Dawn. All five
individuals enrolled in a qualified health plan and were
covered for all of 2025. At enrollment, Pat and Jamie ex-
pected to file a joint return and include the children in their
tax family for the year of coverage. However, Pat and Ja-
mie change their minds and file as married filing sepa-
rately and each includes only themselves in their respec-
tive tax family. Neither checks the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962. Jason, Alicia, and Dawn moved in
with their uncle, Andy, in April. Andy files as head of
household and includes Jason, Alicia, and Dawn in his tax
family.

Pat and Jamie use the allocation method under Rules
for the Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return and
Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer next.

Andy uses the allocation method under Rules for the
Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Married Taxpayers Not Filing
a Joint Return, later.

Rules for the Married Taxpayers Not Filing a
Joint Return and Also Allocating With
Another Taxpayer

Use this allocation method if you are married but not filing
a joint return and you must allocate policy amounts with
your spouse and with a taxpayer who is including in their
tax family an individual enrolled in a qualified health plan
with members of your and your spouse’s tax families. Un-
der this method, you must first allocate 50% each of en-
rollment premiums and APTC to yourself and your spouse.
Line 4 of Worksheet E accomplishes this 50% allocation.
Complete the steps below to determine the amounts to
enter on your Form 8962, Part IV.

Step 1. Determine the applicable SLCSP premium for
your coverage family. See Determining the Premium for
the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan (SLCSP),
earlier. For this purpose, your coverage family or your
spouse’s coverage family (but not both) should include the
individuals the other taxpayer is including in their tax fam-
ily and who was enrolled in a qualified health plan with
your and your spouse’s tax family members. Enter the ap-
plicable SLCSP premium you determined on line 5 of
Worksheet E.

Step 2. Separately from the first allocation (the 50%
spousal allocation), determine an allocation percentage
with the taxpayer(s) including in their tax family the individ-
ual(s) enrolled in the plan. You may agree on any alloca-
tion percentage from -0- to 100. You may use the percent-
age you agreed on for every month in which this allocation
rule applies, or you may agree on different percentages for
different months. However, you must use the same alloca-
tion percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premi-
ums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month.
If you cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allo-
cation percentage is equal to the number of individuals the
other taxpayer includes in their tax family for the tax year
who were enrolled in the qualified health plan for which
you are allocating amounts, divided by the total number of

Publication 974 (2025)

33
individuals enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage
is the percentage that applies to the amounts the other
taxpayer must use to compute the PTC and reconcile it
with APTC. You must compute the PTC and reconcile
APTC using the remaining amounts.

Step 3. Complete Worksheet E below.
Worksheet E. Allocations for Married
Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return

Column (f). If your filing status is married filing sepa-
rately and you did not check the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962, leave column (f) blank. If you
checked the box, or Exception 1 under Married taxpayers
(discussed earlier under Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you, enter the decimal from line 3 of Worksheet
E in column (f) and include the amount from line 6 of
Worksheet E in the totals on the appropriate lines of Form
8962, column (b), for the months allocated.

Column (g). Enter the decimal from line 4 of Work-

1.0

sheet E.

Rules for the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With
Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return

Use this allocation method if you are including in your tax
family an individual who was enrolled in a qualified health
plan with tax family members of taxpayers who must also
allocate policy amounts because the taxpayers are legally
married but not filing a joint return in 2025.

Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with one of
the spouses. You may agree on any allocation percentage
from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you agreed
on for every month in which this allocation rule applies, or
you may agree on different percentages for different
months. However, you must use the same allocation per-
centage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums, ap-
plicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If you
cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation
percentage is equal to the number of individuals you will
include in your tax family for the tax year who were enrol-
led in the qualified health plan for which you are allocating
policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals
enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage is the per-
centage that applies to the amounts you must use to com-
pute the PTC and reconcile it with APTC. The spouses
must compute the PTC and reconcile APTC using the re-
maining amounts. Enter the percentage as a decimal on
line 1 of Worksheet F.

Step 2. Allocate the policy amounts with the second
spouse using the same rules as Step 1 above. Enter the
percentage as a decimal on line 3 of Worksheet F.

Step 3. Complete Worksheet F below.

1. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentage(s) from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as

a decimal

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

5. Enter the applicable SLCSP premium
as determined in Step 1 above. Then,
go to line 6 if you checked the box in
the top right-hand corner of Form
8962, or Exception 1 under Married
taxpayers (discussed earlier under
Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you. Otherwise, stop
here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

6. Multiply line 5 by line 3. Complete

Form 8962, Part IV, as instructed in
Step 4 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

Step 4. If you use the same percentage for every month
during which this allocation method applies, use only one
of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the allocation. If
you use different percentages for different months under
Step 2, use a separate line in Part IV for each allocation
percentage. Complete the line as explained below.

Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.

Column (b). Enter the SSN of your spouse.

Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a per-
centage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).

Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a per-
centage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).

Column (e). If your filing status is married filing sepa-
rately and you did not check the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962, leave column (e) blank. If you
checked the box, or Exception 1 under Married taxpayers
(discussed earlier under Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you, enter the decimal from line 4 of Worksheet
E in column (e).

34

Publication 974 (2025)