Resource

The Employer’s Tax Calendar from Publication 509, Tax Calendars, lists due dates for filing returns and for
making employment tax deposits throughout the year. Use this calendar with Publication 15, which explains
the deposit rules.

Employment Tax Penalties

Employment tax penalties can multiply quickly. There are three main employment tax penalties: failure to
deposit, failure to file and failure to pay. These penalties are often assessed at the same time.

• Failure to deposit - this penalty reaches 10% when past due by 16 days. This means even before the return

is due you could have a 10% penalty.

• Failure to file - accrues at 5% per month reduced by applicable failure to pay penalty, capping at 25%.

• Failure to pay - begins accruing once the return due date has passed and all tax is not paid, also capping

at 25%.

Example: The last deposit of the quarter is due at the end of the month and it is not paid. Your employment
tax return preparer misses a week of work beginning near the last day of the next month (when the return is
due). At this point, the deposit is late, the return is late and failure to pay the tax is now assessed. For being
45 days late the penalties are 15% and increasing by 5% per month for the next 4 months, going from 15% to
35%. If the last deposit was supposed to be $20,000 then the penalty at 45 days is $3,000 and at 5 months is
$7,000.

For more information see the chapter on penalties in Publication 4268, Employment Tax For Indian Tribal
Governments, and Publication 5343, Helpful Hints for Indian Tribes and Tribal Entities to Avoid Penalties on
Federal Tax Deposits and Information Returns.

Trust Fund Recovery Penalty (Failure to Withhold and Pay Employment Tax)

A trust fund recovery penalty may apply when an employer does not withhold or deposit employment tax
that is withheld or supposed to be withheld. This penalty can be applied to any entity, including governmental
entities such as Indian tribes. Under this penalty, officers or employees of a tribal gaming operation could
become personally liable for the tax payment and could be penalized an amount equal to the unpaid tax.
This penalty may apply when unpaid tax cannot be immediately collected from the tribal gaming operation.
The trust fund recovery penalty may be imposed on anyone the IRS determines is responsible for collecting,
accounting for and depositing this tax, and who acted willfully in not doing so. Willfully, in this case, means
voluntarily, consciously and intentionally.

17

Gaming Tax Law and Bank Secrecy Act Issues