Ob^j 2
PartII Ob^j 1
PartI

Ob^j 3

Ob^j 4

Ob^j 5
PartIII

PartIV

PartV

y
r
a
m
m
u
s

e
v

i
t
u
c
e
x
E

:
I

t
r
a
P

The Inflation
Reduction Act
creates a major
opportunity

In August 2022, Congress enacted the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), giving the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) a historic opportunity to transform the administration of the tax system and the
services provided to taxpayers. The IRA provides us with approximately $80 billion over the next
decade to significantly improve the way we serve the public. We will transform service to
taxpayers by using this long-term funding to update technology capabilities and invest
in our employees with new tools, skills, and capabilities. These resources will also ensure the
fairness of the tax system by addressing the tax gap—the difference between taxes due and
taxes paid—most recently estimated at $496 billion.

The IRS has been significantly underfunded for the past decade, with a budget reduction of 22%
in real terms from 2010 to 2021, leaving us with outdated technology and a shrinking workforce
in the face of an increasingly complex tax environment in which to administer the U.S. tax code.
This lack of investment has led to low levels of service, paper-based processes, antiquated
technology, and an overall experience for taxpayers that falls short of what we want to deliver.
The IRA investment is already transforming our ability to improve service to taxpayers.

Shortly after enactment, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS initiated an effort to develop
a Strategic Operating Plan, identifying the highest-priority opportunities to deliver transformational
change for taxpayers. The planning process leveraged prior IRS planning efforts, including the
Taxpayer First Act Report to Congress, new thinking around best practices and available
technology capabilities, and current and past input from a wide range of stakeholders in tax
administration. Additional context that shaped the development of this Plan is available in Part III
and Part V.

IRS IRA Strategic Operating Plan
Part I: Executive Summary

7
Ob 2_j
PartII Ob 1_j

Itr

Pa

Ob 3_j

Ob 4_j

j

Ob 5
PartIII

PartIV

PartV

Ø The rise in the breadth and complexity

of tax administration has outpaced the IRS’s
ability to effectively monitor compliance,
given its limited resources. Over the last
decade, the total number of annual tax return
filings the IRS received has increased by more
than 15 million. Over the same period, the
number of revenue agents employed at the IRS
has decreased by nearly 35%.^21 As a result, the
total number of audits has fallen to historical
lows. The IRS has struggled to dedicate the
resources necessary to proactively monitor
compliance. The monitoring shortfall has been
particularly pronounced among taxpayer groups
with more complex income and returns as the
economy has shifted. The IRS has noted
significant growth in taxpayer segments more
likely to have opaque sources of income or tax
situations. For example, while total tax return
filings increased by 13% from 2011 to 2021,
filings by pass-through entities, including
partnerships and S corporations, increased
by 26% over the same period.^22 However,
monitoring the compliance of pass-through
entities—particularly large and more complex
ones—requires more IRS resources. As a result
of funding limitations, the audit coverage rate
has fallen. While the IRS audited 4.4% of pass-
through entities in 2010, that number fell to
0.1% in 2017 (the most recent tax year with
nearly all audits closed), and audits have
continued to decrease.^23 Additionally, filings
by taxpayers who report income higher than
$500,000 have grown by over 70% from 2011
to 2019, while the IRS’s audit coverage rate for
that income group has fallen by 76% over the
same period.^24

Ø Resolving simple mistakes is often a lengthy
process. Current IRS compliance processes
are frequently initiated well after the time
of filing. Several years may go by after filing
before the IRS contacts a taxpayer about an
issue. For example, less than 1% of automated
under-reporting cases—cases that involve
under-reporting income or claiming too many
deductions—and less than 40% of
correspondence and field audits are started
within six months of filing. On average, these
cases are not resolved until more than 20
months after filing.^19 In some cases, taxpayers
may make the same mistake multiple years in
a row before the original issue is addressed.
This causes challenges, as taxpayers may no
longer be able to remember their prior situation
or may not have real-time access to the
information they need.

Ø Global tax authorities are using innovative
ways to help taxpayers correct their filings.
In the filing phase, there is a trend toward
making it easier to direct-file and nudging
taxpayers to self-correct potential issues.
Australia’s tax authority uses statistical
techniques to flag potential risks in returns
for filers based on an automated review of a
return at the time of filing. The authority gives
taxpayers the option to correct their returns
before final submission.^20

Because the complexities of the
tax-filing process result in errors,
enforcement efforts are often spent
on unintentional mistakes, rather
than intentional noncompliance

Ø Even with improved taxpayer services,

some taxpayers will not comply. While most
taxpayers voluntarily comply with the tax laws,
even with improved help and service some
taxpayers will continue to avoid paying what
is due. The decline in IRS resources and
staffing to address noncompliance affects
taxpayer behavior and their willingness to meet
their obligations voluntarily.

IRS IRA Strategic Operating Plan 141
Part V: Context and Background