Vessel operators are required to report receipts and disbursements of all liquid product to and from any
location that has a Facility Control Number (FCN). Pipeline operators are required to report receipts and
disbursements to and from any approved terminal with a Terminal Control Number (TCN).

Terminal operators are required to report bulk and non-bulk receipts of all liquid products into a terminal
and all disbursements by position holders from a terminal. In addition, terminal operators are required to
report monthly inventory reconciliation by product.

Scope

This publication contains the required Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) data record and file formats as
well as general plain text instructions. This guideline is provided for use by terminal operators and
carriers (information providers) and EDI transmitters, collectively referred to as electronic participants.

Transmission of Reports

The transmission method for filing these information reports is EDI. To file electronically, use the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Accredited Standard Committee (ASC) X 12 EDI
Standards Release 4030.

Required Date Formats

The IRS processing system has changed to reflect the standard format established by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for Century Date. The Century Date is for all electronic
year dates, whether exchanged with non-IRS organizations or part of the internal IRS. All electronically
prepared and transmitted tax reports submitted must be developed in compliance as follows:

Most year date formats should expand to representations from 2 digits to 4 digits and must be reflected as
follows: CCYYMMDD. For example, December 31, 2017, would be reflected as 20171231.

See Section XI, Table 1, List of Attribute Conventions from ANSI ASC X12, for more information.

Software

Information providers may develop their own filing solution or purchase off-the-shelf EDI translation
software for preparation of Forms 720-TO and 720-CS. Prior to EDI filing, all electronic participants
must successfully test (see Section IV, Testing).

II. General Information

When to File

Forms 720-TO and 720-CS must be filed monthly. The report is due the last day of the month following
the reporting period. For each submission to be considered timely it should be filed by the due date of the
report (including any extensions) and all 151 “must fix” errors must be corrected by the 15^th day of the
following month. A submission is an uploaded 813 transaction set that generates both a 997 and 151
acknowledgement transaction set, provided in the ExSTARS users out box.

Each information report must be filed in chronological order without skipping any periods.

Information reports due on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday may be filed on the next business day.

4