Sec. 6 Accuracy of Data and Common Formatting/Submission Errors
.01 Accuracy of Data

Review the following information below along with the record layout information found in Part C. Record
Format Specifications and Record Layouts to ensure the data contained in the required fields is accurate:

•

If a qualified intermediary (QI), withholding foreign partnership (WP), or withholding foreign trust
(WT) is acting as such, either as a withholding agent or as a recipient, the TIN reported must be a
QI-EIN, WP-EIN, or WT-EIN and must begin with “98.” See the definition of a QI in Part A. Sec. 11,
Definition of Terms or in the Instructions for Form 1042-S.

• Country Codes used must be valid codes taken from the Country Code Table at Foreign Country
Code Listing for Modernized e-File. If a recipient is claiming treaty benefits, the Country Code can
never be “OC” or blank. Also, DO NOT use “UC” to indicate unknown country. Country code “UC”
should only be used when the Recipient’s country of residence is Curacao.

•

If a recipient is an “UNKNOWN RECIPIENT” or “WITHHOLDING RATE POOL,” no address should
be present. These are the only two situations where a street address is not required.

• All income, withholding, and repayment fields must be reported in whole dollars only. Don’t enter

cents in amount fields. To round amounts to the nearest whole dollar, drop amounts under 50 cents
and increase amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1 and
$2.50 becomes $3.00. If you must add amounts to figure the amount to enter on a line include cents
when adding and only round off the total.

Apply the following formulas to determine U.S. Federal Tax Withheld, Q record (359-370). Applying the
formulas will determine what the correct amount of withholding should be. If a different amount was
withheld, enter the amount that was actually withheld in whole dollars only. The U.S. Federal Tax
Withheld, Q record (359-370) plus Withholding by Other Agents, Q record (371-382) less Amount Repaid, Q
record (60-71) should equal the Total Withholding Credit, Q record (383-394). For example, if the total
amount reported as withheld by you is $600, total amount withheld by other withholding agent is $120, and
the amount reported as repaid to recipient is $50, the total withholding credit amount will equal $670. All field
positions described below are in the Recipient “Q” Record.

Income Codes (16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 42)

All Other Income Codes

Gross Income (positions 6-17)

Gross Income (positions 6-17)

– Withholding Allowance (positions 18-29)

X Tax Rate (positions 42-45)

= Net Income (positions 30-41)

= U.S. Federal Tax Withheld (positions 359-370)

X Tax Rate (positions 42-45)

= U.S. Federal Tax Withheld (positions 359-370)

34
Sec. 1 Record Format
Don’t use decimal points (.) to indicate dollars and cents. All income, withholding, and repayment fields must
be reported in whole dollars only. Don’t enter cents in amount fields. To round amounts to the nearest whole
dollar, drop amounts under 50 cents and increase amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For
example, $1.39 becomes $1 and $2.50 becomes $3. If you must add amounts to figure amount to enter on a
line include cents when adding and only round the total.

For all fields marked “Required,” the transmitter must provide the information described under General Field
Description. If required fields are not completed in accordance with this publication, the IRS will contact the
filer to request a replacement file. For those fields not marked “Required,” a transmitter must allow for the
field, but may be instructed to enter blanks or zeros in the indicated field positions and for the indicated
length.

Valid Characters

The only valid characters for electronic filing are alpha, numeric, blank, ampersand (&), hyphen (-), comma
(,), apostrophe (’), forward slash (/), pound (#), period (.), and the percent (%). The percent [% (used as “in
care of”)] is valid in the first position only. Don’t use special characters that are unique to a language other
than English. For example: å = A, æ = A, = U, = O, = N, etc. Inclusion of any characters other than those
identified as valid in the instructions will result in a “Bad File” status.

Sec. 2 Transmitter “T” Record

General Field Descriptions

The Transmitter “T” Record identifies the entity transmitting the electronic file. A replacement file will be
requested if the “T” Record is not present. See File Format Diagram.

• Transmitter “T” Record is the first record on each file and is followed by a Withholding Agent “W”

Record.

• All alpha characters entered in the “T” Record must be upper case.

• All records must be a fixed length of 1020 positions.

• Don’t use punctuation in the name and address fields.

• The Transmitter “T” Record contains information, which is critical if it is necessary for IRS to contact

the filer.

• The transmitter and the withholding agent may be the same, but they need not be.

• For all fields marked “Required,” the transmitter must provide the information described under

General Field Description. For those fields not marked “Required,” a transmitter must allow for the
field but may be instructed to enter blanks or zeros in the indicated field positions and for the
indicated length.

44