USE OF EXAMPLES AND TABLES

This publication illustrates the method for using actuarial factors for certain income tax valuations
of future interests. This example uses factors from actuarial tables associated with this publication.
The actuarial tables are located at

https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables

The factors and tables associated with this publication involving life contingencies are derived
from the values of lx taken from the Life Table for the Total Population appearing as Table 1, in
U.S. Decennial Life Tables for 2009-2011 published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Public Health Service, National Center for Health Statistics. Values from Table 1 appear in
the associated set of tables labeled as Table 2010CM. However, in Table 2010CM the values of lx
are stated to seven digits.

ASSOCIATED TABLES ON THE WEB

In Table C, the primary actuarial table on IRS.gov associated with this publication and the following
example, the factors are based on interest rates ranging from 0.2% to 20.0% in intervals of 0.2%.
The wide range of rates is shown pursuant to Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 7520, which
requires the use of an interest rate of 120% of the annual mid-term applicable federal rate for the
month in which the valuation date falls. This rate is referred to in this publication as the “Section
7520 rate,”, or simply the “7520 rate.” All the factors associated with this publication reflect annual
compounding of interest.

The factors in Table C are used for making adjustments to the standard remainder factor for valuing
gifts of depreciable property. Under Federal Income Tax Regulations Section 1.170A-12, this
adjustment must be made for a charitable gift of a remainder interest in a depreciable property to
take a charitable deduction for the gift. As an alternative to factors from Table C, actuarial factors
may be computed with software from the underlying actuarial formulas applicable to ordinary and
depreciable remainder interests, including the formula shown in the above regulations.

3