8. Mail Form W-7/W-7(SP), proof of identity documents and a valid U.S.

Federal income tax return, if applicable, to:

Internal Revenue Service
ITIN Operations
P.O. Box 149342
Austin, TX 78714-9342

If you are using a private delivery service and need to provide a street

address, send your Form W-7 package to:

Internal Revenue Service
ITIN Operations
Mail Stop 6090-AUSC
3651 S. Interregional, Hwy 35
Austin, TX 78741-0000

CAUTION: If you are attaching your tax return to the Form W-7, do not
use the mailing address in the instructions for your tax return. Do not
send a “copy” of the return to any other IRS office.

You can apply for an ITIN by mail or by appointment at any designated
IRS TAC in the United States.

You can also apply through an Acceptance Agent, (see “What are
Acceptance Agents?” later in this publication).

The IRS will send your ITIN in the form of an assignment letter. An ITIN
does not change your immigration status or grant your right to work in
the United States. An ITIN is for tax purposes only.

GENERAL INFORMATION
What is an ITIN?
An ITIN is a tax processing number, issued by the Internal Revenue
Service, for certain resident and nonresident aliens, their spouses, and
their dependents. It is a nine-digit number beginning with the number
“9”, has a range of numbers from "50" to "65", "70" to "88", “90” to
“92” and “94” to “99” for the fourth and fifth digits and is formatted like
a SSN (i.e. 9XX-7X-XXXX).

ITINs are issued regardless of immigration status because both resident
and nonresident aliens may have United States Federal tax filing and
payment responsibilities under the Internal Revenue Code.

What is the purpose of an ITIN?
ITINs are used for federal tax purposes only, and are not intended to
serve any other purpose. IRS issues ITINs to help individuals comply
with the U.S. tax laws, and to provide a means to efficiently process and
account for tax returns and payments for those not eligible for Social
Security Numbers.

An ITIN:

1.

2.
3.

Does not authorize work in the U.S. or provide eligibility for Social
Security Benefits or the Earned Income Tax Credit.
Is not valid for identification outside of the tax system.
Does not change immigration status.

An applicant must enter his/her ITIN in the space provided for the SSN
when completing and filing a U.S. Federal income tax return (Form 1040,
1040NR, 1040X).
NOTE: Applicants are required to file their Form W-7/W-7(SP) with a valid
U.S. Federal income tax return attached, unless they meet an exception
to return filing (see "Exceptions").

Are ITINs valid for identification?
ITINs are not valid for identification outside of the tax
system and should not be offered as identification for
non-tax purposes. ITIN applicants are not required to
apply in person.

Who must apply?
Any individual who is not eligible to obtain a SSN but who must furnish a
taxpayer identification number to the IRS must apply for an ITIN on Form
W-7/W-7(SP).
Do not complete Form W-7/W-7(SP) if you have a SSN or if you are eligible
to obtain a SSN (i.e., A United States citizen or person lawfully admitted
for employment).
Applicants must have a valid filing requirement and file a valid U.S.
Federal income tax return with their ITIN applications, unless they meet
one of the exceptions listed later in this publication.
NOTE: Exceptions relate to the tax return filing requirement. They do not
relate to the tax purpose. Therefore, all individuals must have a tax purpose
for requesting an ITIN, whether or not a U.S. Federal income tax return is
submitted to the IRS with Form W-7.
To determine if you have a filing requirement, see Publication 17, Your
Federal Income Tax, or Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.

Examples of who needs an ITIN:
■ A nonresident alien individual eligible to obtain the benefit of a
reduced tax withholding rate under an income tax treaty. See Pub.
515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities.
■ A nonresident alien individual not eligible for a SSN who is required to
file a U.S. Federal income tax return or who is filing a U.S. tax return
only to claim a refund.

■ A nonresident/resident alien individual not eligible for a SSN who
elects to file a joint U.S. Federal income tax return with a spouse who
is a U.S. citizen or resident.

■ A U.S. resident alien (based on the substantial presence test) who
files a U.S. Federal income tax return but who is not eligible for a
SSN. For information about the substantial presence test, see Pub.
519.

■ An alien spouse, claimed as an exemption on a U.S. Federal income
tax return, who is not eligible to obtain a SSN. Note: A spouse can be
claimed as an exemption only for tax year 2017 and prior.

■ An alien individual eligible to be claimed as a dependent for the
purposes of claiming an allowable tax benefit on a U.S. Federal
income tax return but who is not eligible to obtain a SSN. To determine
if an alien individual is eligible to be claimed as a dependent on a
U.S. Federal income tax return, see Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard
Deduction, and Filing Information and Pub. 519. Note: A dependent
can be claimed as an exemption only for tax year 2017 and prior.
■ A nonresident alien student, professor, or researcher who is required
to file a U.S. Federal income tax return but who is not eligible for a
SSN.

If you have an application for a SSN pending, do not file Form W-7/W
7(SP). Complete Form W-7/W-7(SP) only when the SSA notifies you
that you aren't eligible for an SSN. Proof that the SSA denied your
request for a SSN must be included with your submission of Form W-7/
W-7(SP), whether you are attaching your U.S. Federal income tax return
or requesting an ITIN under one of the “exceptions”.
To request a SSN, use Form SS-5, “Application for a Social Security
Card, (Original, Replacement or Correction)”. This form can be obtained
from the SSA or downloaded from the IRS web site at https://www.ssa.
gov/forms. To find out if you are eligible to obtain a SSN, contact your
nearest SSA Office.
IMPORTANT NOTE: If you are filing for an extension of time to file a United
States Federal income tax return (Form 4868 or Form 2688) or making
an estimated payment with Forms 4868, 2688, or Form 1040-ES/1040-
ES (NR), “Estimated Tax for Individuals/Estimated Tax for Nonresident
Aliens” do not file the Form W-7/W-7(SP) with these forms. Write “ITIN

Individual Taxpayer Identification Number 5