CONTEXT

Context for the Inflation Reduction Act and the Strategic Operating Plan

The funding provided by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) creates a unique opportunity for this nation to realize a
future of tax administration that meets the evolving needs of taxpayers. Prior to the IRA, the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) had been significantly underfunded, with a budget reduction of 18% in real terms from 2010 to 2021. The IRA
provides the IRS with tens of billions of dollars over a decade to significantly improve the way we serve taxpayers,
ensure fair enforcement of tax law, modernize our technology, and collect hundreds of billions of dollars to fund our
country’s vital activities. This funding enables the IRS to finally make meaningful investments in our employees and
technology, evolving the American tax administration system into one that is modern, capable of adapting to this
digital age, and trusted by the public.

After the passage of the IRA, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS developed the Strategic Operating
Plan (or the “Plan”) to guide this large-scale transformation and transparently show the American public, Congress,
and other stakeholders how we plan to use this funding. Published in April 2023, the Plan outlines five major objec-
tives to carry forward this transformation. Through the course of implementing the Plan in the first year, the IRS further
refined the vision and the near-term priority efforts to get there. A key component of this work was the development
of plain language outcomes, aligned to the five objectives in the Plan, with priority efforts and key results to deliver
over the next two years. These outcomes will be embedded throughout this update.

Objective 1

Dramatically improve services to help taxpayers meet their
obligations and receive the tax incentives for which they are eligible

Objective 2

Quickly resolve taxpayer issues when they arise

• Enhance Live Assistance
• Expand Online Services
• Accelerate Digitalization
• Improve Employee Tools

• Simplify Notices
• Disrupt Scams

Objective 3

Focus expanded enforcement on taxpayers with complex tax filings
and high-dollar noncompliance to address the tax gap

• Ensure Fairness in Enforcement

Objective 4

Deliver cutting-edge technology, data, and analytics to operate more
effectively

• Modernize Foundational IT

Objective 5

Attract, retain, and empower a highly skilled, diverse workforce
and develop a culture that is better equipped to deliver results for
taxpayers

• Enhance Human Capital and

Culture

The plan was published with a commitment from the IRS Commissioner to provide annual progress updates to the
public. To meet that commitment, we have published the IRA Strategic Operating Plan: Annual Update, which is
available in full in Appendix 1. This report provides additional detail on the future of the plan, across three major areas:

• Vision for a transformed IRS

• Priorities for Fiscal Year 2024 and Fiscal Year 2025

• Budget and staffing

In addition, more can be found regarding the Strategic Operating Plan (IRS Inflation Reduction Act Strategic
Operating Plan | Internal Revenue Service), on the Treasury Inflation Reduction Act website (Inflation Reduction
Act | U.S. Department of the Treasury), and regular reporting on IRS Inflation Reeducation Act spending (IRS
financial reports | Internal Revenue Service).

IRS IRA Strategic Operating Plan | Annual Update Supplement

1
Depletion of IRA Funding Threatens Service and IT Improvements
With the funding currently appropriated to the IRS, the agency can maintain the taxpayer services workforce at
the level required to deliver exceptional service in FY 2025, but will not be able to support these efforts through FY
2026. The 85% level of service target for the 2025 filing season will necessarily drop to less than 30% in FY 2026 as
Taxpayer Services staff needed to support taxpayers who need help will be underfunded by more than 33% meaning
that less than three out of every 10 taxpayers will get through to the IRS when they call.

Similarly, Business System Modernization (BSM) funds were zeroed out in FY 2023 and FY 2024 appropriations. The
IRS is currently reliant on IRA funds for Digitalization and other technological innovations and in the absence of discre-
tionary BSM funding, estimates it is currently underfunded by nearly $3 billion through FY 2031. The IRS estimates
BSM funds provided by the IRA will be exhausted by FY 2026 at which point: automation solutions will be scaled
back leaving taxpayers without the ability to have up-to-date account information when they want it; cyber and cloud
work will be truncated, increasing the risk for failure of IRS systems and cyber-attacks; and work on digital solutions
including Taxpayer 360 and expanded payment functionality. IRA Operations Support appropriations are projected to
be fully exhausted in FY 2030, at which point in time the IRS will be unable to fund the operations and maintenance
costs to support newly enhanced and deployed technology.

IRS Will More than Double Audit Rates on the Wealthiest Taxpayers, While Protecting Small
Businesses and Everyday Families from Additional Audit Scrutiny, But Additional Funding Will
be Needed

Continual underfunding from 2010 through 2021 meant the IRS was significantly understaffed across all of its work
streams – most notably in the IRS’s compliance offices where overall staffing declined 30% since 2010. At the time
of the IRA’s passage, the IRS had only 8,400 revenue agents, down from 14,600 in 2010, while the number of large
corporate, large partnership, and high-income individual filings grew rapidly over time. As a result, the audit rate for
the largest corporations fell to a low in tax year (TY) 2019 of 8.8% (down from 28.5% in TY 2010), and the audit rate
for multi-millionaires decreased by nearly 50% from TY 2010 to TY 2019. Moreover, the number of large partnerships
grew by 70% from TY 2010 to TY 2019, but the IRS was only able to audit 0.1% of these partnerships.

The IRS is using the enforcement funding provided by the IRA to hire accountants, engineers, economists, data
scientists, attorneys, and tax experts with the specialized skills to examine the complex returns of large corporations,
complex partnerships, and high-income individuals. The IRS will not increase audit rates relative to historical levels for
small businesses and households making under $400,000 per year.

As noted above, with the funding provided by the IRA, the IRS has already begun to rebuild capacity and deliver
results to improve tax fairness. Such results include collecting over half a billion dollars from millionaires with delin-
quent tax debt and examining the returns of large partnerships with questionable balance sheets. New enforcement
staff will allow the IRS to double audit rates on the wealthiest taxpayers, reversing the sharp decline in audit rates over
the 2010s. More specifically, the IRS will:

• Nearly triple audit rates on large corporations with assets over $250 million

•

•

Increase audit rates by nearly ten-fold on large, complex partnerships with assets over $10 million

Increase audit rates by more than 50% on wealthy individual taxpayers with total positive income over
$10 million

• Not increase audit rates for small businesses and taxpayers making under $400,000, relative to historical

levels

IRS IRA Strategic Operating Plan | Annual Update Supplement

29

TRANSFORMATION