2. Fiscal tax year. A fiscal tax year is 12 consecutive
months ending on the last day of any month except
December. A 52-53-week tax year is a fiscal tax year
that varies from 52 to 53 weeks but does not have to
end on the last day of a month.

If you file your first tax return using the calendar tax
year and you later begin business as a sole proprietor, be-
come a partner in a partnership, or become a shareholder
in an S corporation, you must continue to use the calendar
year unless you get IRS approval to change it or are other-
wise allowed to change it without IRS approval.

You must use a calendar tax year if:
• You keep no books or records.
• You have no annual accounting period.
• Your present tax year does not qualify as a fiscal year.
• You are required to use a calendar year by a provision
of the Internal Revenue Code or the Income Tax Regu-
lations.
For more information, see Pub. 538.

First-time filer. If you have never filed an income tax re-
turn for your business, you can adopt either a calendar tax
year or a fiscal tax year. Although, some partnerships and
S corporations must use a particular tax year. See Pub.
538 for more information.

You adopt a tax year by filing your first income tax re-
turn using that tax year. You have not adopted a tax year if
all you did was one or more of the following.
• Filed an application for an extension of time to file an

income tax return.

• Filed an application for an EIN.
• Paid estimated taxes for that tax year.

Changing your tax year. Once you have adopted your
tax year, you may have to get IRS approval to change it. To
get approval, you must file Form 1128, Application To
Adopt, Change, or Retain a Tax Year. You may have to pay
a fee. For more information, see Pub. 538.

Choosing an Accounting
Method

An accounting method is a set of rules used to determine
when and how income and expenses are reported. You
choose an accounting method for your business when you
file your first income tax return. There are two basic ac-
counting methods.

1. Cash method. Under the cash method, you report in-
come in the tax year you receive it. You usually deduct
or capitalize expenses in the tax year you pay them.

2. Accrual method. Under an accrual method, you gen-
erally report income in the tax year you earn it, even
though you may receive payment in a later year. You
deduct or capitalize expenses in the tax year you incur
them, whether or not you pay them that year.

For other methods, see Pub. 538.

If an inventory is necessary to account for your income,
you must generally use an accrual method of accounting
for purchases and sales. Inventories include goods held
for sale in the normal course of business. They also in-
clude raw materials and supplies that will physically be-
come a part of merchandise intended for sale. Inventories
are explained in Pub. 538.

Certain small business taxpayers can use the
cash method of accounting and can also account
for inventoriable items as materials and supplies
that are not incidental. For more information, see Pub.
538.

You must use the same accounting method to figure
your taxable income and to keep your books. Also, you
must use an accounting method that clearly shows your
income. In general, any accounting method that consis-
tently uses accounting principles suitable for your trade or
business clearly shows income. An accounting method
clearly shows income only if it treats all items of gross in-
come and expense the same from year to year.

More than one business. When you own more than one
business, you can use a different accounting method for
each business if the method you use for each clearly
shows your income. You must keep a complete and sepa-
rate set of books and records for each business.

Changing your method of accounting. Once you have
set up your accounting method, you must generally get
IRS approval before you can change to another method. A
change in accounting method not only includes a change
in your overall system of accounting, but also a change in
the treatment of any material item. For examples of
changes that require approval and information on how to
get approval for the change, see Pub. 538.

Business Taxes

The form of business you operate determines what taxes
you must pay and how you pay them. The following are
the four general kinds of business taxes.
• Income tax.
• Self-employment tax.
• Employment taxes.
• Excise taxes.

See Table 2 for the forms you file to report these taxes.

You may want to get Pub. 509. It has tax calen-
dars that tell you when to file returns and make tax
payments.

Income Tax

All businesses except partnerships must file an annual in-
come tax return. Partnerships file an information return.

Publication 583 (12-2024)

5

TIP

TIP