VII. FORM W-2 SSN SOLICITATIONS

In general, the solicitation rules with respect to missing or incorrect TINs on Form W-2 are the same
as discussed in Sections V and VI. An employer must make an initial solicitation for the employee’s
SSN at the time the employee begins work. The initial solicitation of the employee’s SSN may be
made in person, by oral request, or by written request. The SSN may also be requested through
other communications, by mail, telephone, or electronic means. The employer may rely in good
faith on the number provided by the employee and use it when filling out the employee’s Form W-2.
Employees are required to complete Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, to establish that
they are legally eligible to work in the U.S.

An employer has an obligation to ask for Form W-4 from a new employee. Under IRC 3402(f)(2)(A),
on commencement of employment, an employee must provide a signed Form W-4 (or a substitute
form) with the information necessary for the employer to determine the employee’s correct income
tax withholding.

Since the employee is required to furnish Form W-4 to the employer on commencement of
employment, Form W-4 may be used as the initial solicitation of the employee’s SSN. An employer
who retains the Form W-4 in its records will be able to document that an initial solicitation of a TIN
was made, verifying that it acted in a responsible manner.

Employers may use the SSA’s SSN verification systems to verify the employee’s name and SSN,
but there is no IRS requirement to do so. The option is useful for employers to identify potential
discrepancies and correct SSNs before receiving a penalty notice. For more information, go to
www.socialsecurity.gov/employer.

Generally, SSA and IRS records are consistent. However, it is important to note that the database
used by SSA to match names and SSNs may not be identical to the IRS database. IRS penalty
notices relating to mismatched TINs are based and issued exclusively on IRS system information.
Mismatches reported under SSA verification systems are not considered IRS notices and do not
trigger any further solicitation requirements under IRS rules for reasonable cause waivers. However,
if an employer receives a mismatch notice from SSA, the employer may wish to re-solicit the
employee’s SSN and try to obtain correct information prior to filing the Form W-2.

VIII. INFORMATION RETURN PENALTY RATES

The Trade Preferences Extension Act (TPEA) of 2015, Section 806, increased the IRC 6721 and IRC
6722 base penalty rates from $100 to $250 for each return that failed to comply with information
return filing requirements. The calendar year maximum penalties for both large and small businesses
also increased. In addition, IRC 6721(f) and IRC 6722(f) provide for annual inflationary adjustments to
the IRC 6721 and IRC 6722 penalty rates and calendar year maximum penalties for returns required
to be filed and furnished on or after January 1, 2016. See Revenue Procedures for
inflation adjustments.

14