Significant Cases (1/3)

Global Export Control and
Sanctions Evasion Scheme
New York Field Office

From 2019 through 2022, Vadim Yermolenko,
a dual U.S. and Russian national residing in
New Jersey, played a key role in a transnational
procurement and money laundering network that
illegally acquired U.S.-made dual-use electronics
and military-grade ammunition intended for
Russian military and intelligence entities.

Yermolenko was affiliated with Serniya Engineering
(Serniya) and Sertal LLC (Sertal), two Moscow-based
procurement companies that operated a network
of shell companies and bank accounts throughout
the world, including in the United States. These
companies concealed involvement of the Russian
government and end-users of highly sensitive
electronic components, some which are used
in the development of nuclear weapons or
other military applications. Serniya, Sertal, and
several individuals and companies involved in
the scheme were placed on the Office of Foreign
Assets Control’s (OFAC) Specially Designated
Nationals List in February 2022, which allows
the U.S. to place sanctions on these entities.

Yermolenko helped set up shell companies and U.S.
bank accounts to conceal the Russian government’s
involvement, funneling over $12 million through
accounts he controlled. Yermolenko failed to report
the funds to the IRS. These funds were used in
part to purchase sensitive radar equipment for
surveillance, military research, and development.
Yermolenko pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate
the Export Control Reform Act, bank fraud conspiracy,
and conspiracy to defraud the United States. He
was sentenced to 30 months in prison and ordered
to pay a forfeiture money judgment of $75,547.

TD Bank Investigation
Newark Field Office

For almost a decade, TD Bank NA and its parent
company, TD Bank US Holding Company, the 10th
largest bank in the United States, had long-term,
pervasive, and systemic deficiencies in its U.S.
anti-money laundering (AML) policies, procedures,
and controls but failed to take appropriate remedial
action. Instead, senior executives at TD Bank
enforced a budget mandate, referred to internally
as a “flat cost paradigm,” requiring that TD Bank’s
budget not increase year-over-year, despite its
profits and risk profile increasing significantly over
the same period. Although TD Bank maintained
elements of an AML program that appeared
adequate on paper, fundamental, widespread
flaws in its AML program made TD Bank an “easy
target” for perpetrators of financial crime.

TD Bank’s federal regulators and their own internal
audit staff repeatedly identified concerns about
its transaction monitoring program, a key element
of an effective AML program, which is necessary
to detect and report suspicious activities and
financial transactions. TD Bank intentionally did
not automatically monitor all domestic automated
clearinghouse transactions (ACH), most check
activity, and numerous other transaction types,
resulting in 92% of their total transaction volume
going unmonitored from January 2018 through
April 2024. This amounted to approximately
$18.3 trillion of unmonitored transaction activity.

Employees of TD Bank described the institution as
a “convenient” target for criminals, which allowed
hundreds of millions of dollars to pass through
the bank. The investigation revealed at least three
distinct money laundering networks that collectively
transferred more than $670 million through TD Bank
accounts between 2019 and 2023. The Justice
Department has charged over two dozen individuals
across these schemes, including two bank insiders.
TD Bank’s plea agreement requires continued
cooperation in ongoing investigations of
individuals. In November 2024, TD Bank
was ordered to forfeit over $452 million
and to pay a criminal fine of $1.4 billion.

8

Bitfinex Hack
Washington, D.C. Field Office

In 2016, Ilya Lichtenstein hacked into Bitfinex, a
global cryptocurrency exchange, using advanced
hacking tools and techniques. Once inside the
network, Lichtenstein fraudulently authorized more
than 2,000 transactions transferring 119,754 bitcoin
from Bitfinex to a cryptocurrency wallet in his control.
Lichtenstein then took steps to cover his tracks by
deleting access credentials and other log files from
Bitfinex’s network that could have revealed his
conduct to law enforcement. Following the hack,
Lichtenstein enlisted the help of his wife, Heather
Morgan, in laundering the stolen funds. At the time
of the hack, the bitcoin was valued at $71 million.

Lichtenstein, at times with Morgan’s assistance,
employed numerous sophisticated laundering
techniques that ranged from using fictitious
identities to set up online accounts to utilizing
computer programs to automate transactions to
converting bitcoin to other forms of cryptocurrency
in a practice known as chain hopping. He then
used U.S.-based business accounts to legitimize
his and Morgan’s banking activity and exchanged
a portion of the stolen funds for gold coins.

Lichtenstein and Morgan both pleaded guilty.
Lichtenstein was sentenced to five years in
prison, and Morgan was sentenced to 18 months.
Several billion dollars of illicit proceeds have also
been recovered through seizure and forfeiture
due to the appreciation of the stolen funds.

North Korean Information
Technology Scheme
Phoenix Field Office

From 2020 through 2023, Christina Chapman
conspired with and assisted North Korean IT workers
in a scheme that generated more than $17 million
in illicit revenue for herself and North Korea. Using
stolen and purchased identities of U.S. nationals,
North Korean workers applied for remote IT jobs
at over 300 U.S. companies, including Fortune
500 corporations, major television networks,
American car makers, and tech companies.

Chapman operated a “laptop farm,” where she
received and hosted computers from U.S. companies
at her home, leading the companies to believe these
workers were in the United States. Chapman also
shipped 49 laptops and other devices supplied by U.S.
companies to locations overseas, including multiple
shipments to a city in China near North Korea.

Much of the $17.1 million was falsely reported as
wages to the IRS and Social Security Administration
in the names of U.S. individuals whose identities
had been stolen or borrowed. Chapman pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
aggravated identity theft, and conspiracy to
launder monetary instruments. She was sentenced
to 102 months in prison and ordered to forfeit
$284,555.92 that she planned to pay to the North
Koreans and pay a judgement of $176,850.

54

CONVICTIONS

63 Mos

AVERAGE SENTENCING

$149M

ASSETS SEIZED

9

IRS-CI ANNUAL REPORT 2025

CYBERCRIMES
Significant Cases (3/3)

Multi-State Drug Trafficking
and Money Laundering
Tampa Field Office

From 2017 through 2023, a violent drug trafficking
organization led by Dudzinski Edwinn Poole,
known as “Zink,” distributed massive quantities of
methamphetamine and fentanyl across multiple
states, including Florida, Georgia, and Ohio. The
organization relied on a network of couriers,
stash houses, and mailed packages to move
narcotics. They then laundered their proceeds,
including through an entertainment business that
disguised illicit revenue as legitimate income. The
investigation uncovered a wide-reaching conspiracy
involving suppliers, distributors, couriers, and
financial operatives who played roles in sustaining
the drug pipeline and concealing profits.

Investigators seized more than 250 pounds of
methamphetamine and fentanyl, along with firearms,
vehicles, jewelry, and residences purchased with
the drug proceeds. Leaders used commercial flights
and the mail to transport drugs, while laundering
millions of dollars through shell operations and cash
couriers. Evidence revealed that members of the
organization used violence, threats, and intimidation
to maintain control of their operation and profits.

Seventeen defendants were convicted, either
through guilty pleas or jury trials. Sentences
varied depending on the defendant’s role:
Michael Chester was sentenced to life in prison,
reflecting his leadership in the conspiracy, while
Poole received 21 years and 10 months. Several
others received terms ranging from six years to
more than 30 years. The wide range of sentences
highlights the differing levels of responsibility
within the organization, from masterminds and
major distributors to couriers and facilitators.

COVID-19 Pandemic Fraud Scheme
Los Angeles Field Office

Syndicated Conservation Easements
Charlotte Field Office

From June 2020 through December 2021, Casie
Hynes engaged in a wide-ranging fraud scheme
exploiting COVID-19 relief programs and pandemic
tax credits. Hynes submitted over 80 fraudulent
loan applications through the Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP) and Economic Injury Disaster Loan
(EIDL) program, seeking more than $3.1 million in
relief funds. She fabricated the number of employees,
payroll amounts, and supporting tax and bank
records, and she used the personal information and
signatures of others without authorization. Through
this scheme, she successfully obtained approximately
$2.25 million in fraudulent loan proceeds.

In addition, between May 2021 and April 2022,
Hynes submitted a dozen fraudulent tax filings
claiming nearly $1.3 million in pandemic-related
tax credits, including the Employee Retention Credit
and Paid Sick and Family Leave Credits. These
filings were submitted on behalf of companies she
controlled, such as Nasty Womxn Project LLC, She
Suite Ventures, and Casie Hynes Consulting, and
were based on fictitious wages and employees.
Although those tax credit claims were denied,
the attempt underscored her use of multiple
pandemic relief programs to maximize illicit gain.

Hynes was convicted of wire fraud and presenting
false claims to the United States. She was
sentenced to 60 months in prison and ordered
to pay more than $2.37 million in restitution.

IRS-CI continues to investigate individuals associated
with an abusive tax scheme tied to syndicated
conservation easement transactions. From 2014
through at least 2019, Victor Smith, CPA, a founding
partner of an Atlanta-based accounting firm,
promoted and sold tax deductions to his wealthy
clients in illegal syndicated conservation easement
tax shelters, which were organized and created
by co-defendants Jack Fisher, James Sinnott,
and others. Smith and his firm sold approximately
$14 million in false tax deductions to their clients,
causing a tax loss to the IRS of about $4.8 million.
Smith earned $491,400 in commissions.

William Tomasello, a CPA at another accounting
firm, also promoted and sold units to his wealthy
clients causing a tax loss of about $2.3 million. He
earned approximately $525,072 in commissions.

Smith and Tomasello both knew that, contrary to
law, these tax shelters lacked economic substance
and that their wealthy clients participated in these
sham investments only to obtain a tax deduction.
For example, a client who purchased units in a
partnership had to vote ostensibly on what to
do with the partnership’s land. However, Smith
and Tomasello knew that the vote held by the
partnerships each year was just for optics, and
the land invariably would be donated largely as
a conservation easement. Smith and Tomasello
also knowingly instructed and caused their clients
to falsely backdate documents like subscription
agreements and checks related to the illegal tax
shelters. In October 2024, they were each sentenced
to 20 months in prison for their role in the scheme.

In FY25, eight defendants were convicted of
criminal conduct related to this scheme, which was
orchestrated by Fisher and Sinnott. Fisher and Sinnott
were convicted after trial and sentenced in 2024. Other
defendants include appraiser Walter Douglas “Terry”
Roberts, Ralph Anderson, and Vui Bui, an attorney
and partner at Sinnott & Co. Bui was sentenced to
16 months in prison for his role in this scheme.

12

13

IRS-CI ANNUAL REPORT 2025