acquisition. Further, the rule applies after the
first 5 years only if the organization satisfies the
IRS that use of the land for exempt purposes is
reasonably certain before the 10-year period
expires. The organization need not show bind-
ing contracts to satisfy this requirement; but it
must have a definite plan detailing a specific im-
provement and a completion date, and it must
show some affirmative action toward the fulfill-
ment of the plan. This information should be for-
warded to the IRS for a ruling at least 90 days
before the end of the 5th year after acquisition
of the land. Send information to:

Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:DRU
P.O. Box 120, Ben Franklin Station
Washington, DC 20044

If a private delivery service is used, the address
is:

Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:DRU, Room 5336
1111 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20224

The IRS may grant a reasonable extension of
time for requesting the ruling if the organization
can show good cause. For more information,
contact the IRS.

For any updates to these addresses go
to IRS.gov/Pub598.

Actual use. If the neighborhood land rule
doesn’t apply because the acquired land isn’t in
the neighborhood of other land used for an or-
ganization's exempt purposes, or because the
organization fails to establish after the first 5
years of the 10-year period that the property will
be used for exempt purposes, but the land is
used eventually by the organization for its ex-
empt purposes within the 10-year period, the
property isn’t treated as debt-financed property
for any period before the conversion.

Limits. The neighborhood land rule or ac-
tual use rule applies to any structure on the land
when acquired, or to the land occupied by the
structure, only so long as the intended future
use of the land in furtherance of the organiza-
tion's exempt purpose requires that the struc-
ture be demolished or removed in order to use
the land in this manner. Thus, during the first 5
years after acquisition (and for later years if
there is a favorable ruling), improved property
isn’t debt financed so long as the organization
doesn’t abandon its intent to demolish the exist-
ing structures and use the land in furtherance of
its exempt purpose. If an actual demolition of
these structures occurs, the use made of the
land need not be the one originally intended as
long as its use furthers the organization's ex-
empt purpose.

In addition to this limit, the neighborhood
land rule and the actual use rule don’t apply to
structures erected on land after its acquisition.
They don’t apply to property subject to a busi-
ness lease (as defined in section 1.514(f)-1 of
the regulations) whether an organization ac-
quired the property subject to the lease, or
whether it executed the lease after acquisition.
A business lease is any lease, with certain

exceptions, of real property for a term of more
than 5 years by an exempt organization if at the
close of the lessor's tax year there is a business
lease (acquisition) indebtedness on that prop-
erty.

Refund of taxes. When the neighborhood
land rule doesn’t initially apply, but the land is
eventually used for exempt purposes, a refund
or credit of any overpaid taxes will be allowed
for a prior tax year as a result of the satisfaction
of the actual use rule. A claim must be filed
within 1 year after the close of the tax year in
which the actual use rule is satisfied. Interest
rates on any overpayment are governed by the
regulations.

Example. In January 2009, Y, a calendar
year exempt organization, acquired real prop-
erty contiguous to other property that Y uses in
furtherance of its exempt purpose. Assume that
without the neighborhood land rule, the property
would be debt-financed property. Y didn’t sat-
isfy the IRS by January 2014 that the existing
structure would be demolished and the land
would be used in furtherance of its exempt pur-
pose. From 2014 until the property is converted
to an exempt use, the income from the property
is subject to the tax on unrelated business in-
come. During July 2018, Y will demolish the ex-
isting structure on the land and begin using the
land in furtherance of its exempt purpose. At
that time, Y can file claims for refund for the
open years 2015 through 2017.

Further, Y also can file a claim for refund for
2014, even though a claim for that tax year may
be barred by the statute of limitations, provided
the claim is filed before the close of 2019.

Churches. The neighborhood land rule as
described here also applies to churches, or a
convention or association of churches, but with
two differences:

1. The period during which the organization
must demonstrate the intent to use ac-
quired property for exempt purposes is in-
creased from 10 to 15 years, and

2. Acquired property doesn’t have to be in
the neighborhood of other property used
by the organization for exempt purposes.

Thus, if a church or association or conven-
tion of churches acquires real property for the
primary purpose of using the land in the exer-
cise or performance of its exempt purpose,
within 15 years after the time of acquisition, the
property isn’t treated as debt-financed property
as long as the organization doesn't abandon its
intent to use the land in this manner within the
15-year period.

This exception for a church or association or
convention of churches doesn’t apply to any
property after the 15-year period expires. Fur-
ther, this rule will apply after the first 5 years of
the 15-year period only if the church or associa-
tion or convention of churches establishes to
the satisfaction of the IRS that use of the ac-
quired land in furtherance of the organization's
exempt purpose is reasonably certain before
the 15-year period expires.

If a church or association or convention of
churches can’t establish after the first 5 years of
the 15-year period that use of acquired land for
its exempt purpose is reasonably certain within

the 15-year period, but the land is in fact con-
verted to an exempt use within the 15-year pe-
riod, the land isn’t treated as debt-financed
property for any period before the conversion.

The same rule for demolition or removal of
structures, as discussed earlier in this chapter
under Limits, applies to a church or an associa-
tion or a convention of churches.

Computation of
Debt-Financed Income

For each debt-financed property, the unrelated
debt-financed income is a percentage (not over
100%) of the total gross income derived during
a tax year from the property. This percentage is
the same percentage as the average acquisi-
tion indebtedness with respect to the property
for the tax year of the property's average adjus-
ted basis for the year (the debt/basis percent-
age). Thus, the formula for deriving unrelated
debt-financed income is:

average acquisition
indebtedness

average adjusted basis

x

gross income
from
debt-financed
property

Example. X, an exempt trade association,
owns an office building that is debt-financed
property. The building produced $10,000 of
gross rental income last year. The average ad-
justed basis of the building during that year was
$100,000, and the average acquisition indebt-
the building was
edness with respect
$50,000. Accordingly, the debt/basis percent-
age was 50%
to
$100,000). Therefore, the unrelated debt-fi-
nanced income with respect to the building was
$5,000 (50% of $10,000).

ratio of $50,000

(the

to

Gain or loss from sale or other disposition
of property. If an organization sells or other-
wise disposes of debt-financed property, it must
include, in computing UBTI, a percentage (not
over 100%) of any gain or loss. The percentage
is that of the highest acquisition indebtedness
with
the
12-month period preceding the date of disposi-
tion, in relation to the property's average adjus-
ted basis.

the property during

respect

to

The tax on this percentage of gain or loss is
determined according to the usual rules for cap-
ital gains and losses.

Debt-financed property exchanged for
subsidiary's stock. A
transfer of debt-fi-
nanced property by a tax-exempt organization
to its wholly owned taxable subsidiary, in ex-
change for additional stock in the subsidiary,
isn’t considered a gain subject to the tax on un-
related business income.

Example. A tax-exempt hospital wants to
build a new hospital complex to replace its
present old and obsolete facility. The most de-
sirable location for the new hospital complex is
a site occupied by an apartment complex. Sev-
eral years ago the hospital bought the land and
apartment complex, taking title subject to a first
mortgage already on the premises.

For valid business reasons, the hospital pro-
posed to exchange the land and apartment

Chapter 4

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 19

!

CAUTION