After You File Your Protest

The Appeals Office is the dispute resolution forum of the IRS. It is separate from – and independent of – Exempt
Organizations and other IRS divisions. Most disputes can be settled through the Appeals Office. But if you cannot reach
an agreement with the Appeals Office, you may be able to take your case to federal court, assuming that you meet certain
procedural and jurisdictional requirements.

If you believe that your disputed issue has not been addressed in published precedent or has been treated inconsistently
by the IRS, you may ask that it be referred to the Associate Chief Counsel (Tax Exempt and Government Entities)
(TEGE) office for advice or guidance. The Associate Chief Counsel (TEGE) will consider the issue and render a written
decision in the form of a technical advice memorandum. You can request Associate Chief Counsel consideration at any
time, whether your case is in Exempt Organizations or in Appeals.

Note: A decision rendered in a technical advice memorandum that concerns your tax-exempt status or foundation
classification generally is final and binding on Appeals. If the decision concerns any other issue, it’s binding on Appeals
only if it’s favorable to you. If the decision is unfavorable, Appeals can reach its own conclusion.

Appeals Office conferences are informal so that you, your representative and the Appeals officer can engage in a
frank discussion of the issues in dispute. There is no sworn testimony, and no stenographer is present to record the
discussions. Matters alleged as fact must be submitted in the form of an affidavit or declared to be true under penalty of
perjury.

If the Appeals officer considers the issues amenable to settlement, the Appeals officer will ask you to submit an offer of
settlement or the Appeals officer will propose the terms of a settlement. If you agree to settle, you’ll be asked to sign a
settlement agreement form.

Taking Your Dispute to Court

If a settlement can’t be reached as to the proposed adverse determination, you will receive a letter stating the final
decision and telling you the deadline for filing a pleading in court.

Declaratory Judgments Relating to Tax-Exempt Status and Classification of Organizations

Once you receive the letter, you have the right to petition the U.S. Tax Court, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims or the U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia for a declaratory judgment as to your qualification for exempt status or your
classification as a private foundation or publicly supported organization. If the court rules in your favor, the IRS must abide
by the court’s decision.

For information about appealing taxes owed or refunds, see Publication 5, Your Appeals Rights and How to Prepare a
Protest If You Don’t Agree. For employment taxes, see Publication 5146, Employment Tax Returns: Examinations and
Appeal Rights.

The court cannot issue you a declaratory judgment unless you file an appropriate petition or complaint with the court
within 90 days of the date of our final determination letter. The court must also find that you exhausted all administrative
remedies available to you within the IRS.

United States Tax Court

To initiate a declaratory judgment action in U.S. Tax Court, file a petition titled “Petition for Declaratory Judgment (Exempt
Organization)” with the court clerk at: United States Tax Court, 400 Second Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20217.

For more information about bringing an action in the U.S. Tax Court, including the type of information your petition should
contain, contact the Office of the Clerk by mail at 400 Second Street NW, Washington, DC 20217-0002, or by phone at
202-521-0700.

Publication 892 (Rev. 2-2017) Catalog Number 46844C Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov