Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local
community, if you qualify, include the following.
• Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-
dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly
and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for
taxpayers in participating states who have relatively
simple tax returns reporting certain types of income
and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Di-
rect File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a
participating state, Direct File guides you to a
state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file
your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile
for more information, program updates, and frequently
asked questions.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-
come.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
tax filing needs.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your

e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-

racy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification

number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you're ultimately responsible for providing all the
information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
parer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers can register to use Business Services On-
line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

6

Publication 595 (12-2024)

!

CAUTION