What’s New
Bankruptcy estate filing threshold. For tax year 2025,
the requirement to file a return for a bankruptcy estate ap-
plies only if gross income is at least $15,750. This amount
is equal to the standard deduction for married individuals
filing a separate return and is generally adjusted annually.
See the Instructions for Form 1041 for updates to the filing
threshold amount for future years.

Reminders
Bankruptcy administrative expenses. Bankruptcy ad-
ministrative expenses are reported on Schedule 1 (Form
1040) as allowable in arriving at adjusted gross income.
These expenses were previously reported on Schedule A
(Form 1040) as miscellaneous itemized deductions. See
Internal Revenue Code section 67(e) and IRS.gov/irb/
2020-45_IRB#TD-9918. For specific reporting instruc-
tions, see Administrative expenses, later.
Automatic 6-month extension of time to file a bank-
ruptcy estate return. An automatic 6-month extension
of time to file a bankruptcy estate income tax return is
available for individuals in chapter 7 or chapter 11 bank-
ruptcy proceedings upon filing a required application.
Bankruptcy Code tax filing requirements. Debtors fil-
ing under chapters 7, 11, 12, and 13 of the Bankruptcy
Code must file all applicable federal, state, and local tax
returns that become due after a case commences. Failure
to file tax returns timely or obtain an extension can cause
a bankruptcy case to be converted to another chapter or
dismissed.

In chapter 13 cases, the debtor must file all required
tax returns for tax periods ending within 4 years of the fil-
ing of the bankruptcy petition.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Reve-
nue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
1-800-THE-LOST
and
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

calling

Introduction
Caution: This publication isn't intended to cover bank-
ruptcy law in general, or to provide detailed discussions of
the tax rules for the more complex corporate bankruptcy
reorganizations or other highly technical transactions. Ad-
ditionally, this publication isn't updated on an annual basis
and may not reflect recent developments in bankruptcy or
tax law. If you need more guidance on the bankruptcy or
tax laws applicable to your case, you should seek profes-
sional advice.

A fundamental goal of the bankruptcy laws enacted by
Congress is to give an honest debtor a financial “fresh
start.” This is accomplished through the bankruptcy dis-
charge, which is a permanent injunction (court-ordered
prohibition) against the collection of certain debts as a
personal liability of the debtor.

Bankruptcy proceedings begin with the filing of either a
voluntary petition in the United States Bankruptcy Court
or, in certain cases, an involuntary petition filed by cred-
itors. This filing creates the bankruptcy estate.
• The bankruptcy estate generally consists of all of the
assets the individual or entity owns on the date the
bankruptcy petition was filed.

• The bankruptcy estate is treated as a separate taxable
entity for individuals filing bankruptcy petitions under
chapter 7 or 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, discussed
later.

• The tax obligations of taxable bankruptcy estates are
discussed later under Individuals in Chapter 7 or 11.

Generally, when a debt owed to another person or en-
tity is canceled, the amount canceled or forgiven is con-
sidered income that is taxed to the person owing the debt.
If a debt is canceled under a bankruptcy proceeding, the
amount canceled isn't taxable income. However, the can-
celed debt reduces other tax benefits to which the debtor
would otherwise be entitled. See Debt Cancellation, later.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

225

225 Farmer's Tax Guide

525

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income

536

536 Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for Individuals,
Estates, and Trusts

538

538 Accounting Periods and Methods

544

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets

551

551 Basis of Assets

4681

4681 Canceled Debts, Foreclosures,
Repossessions, and Abandonments

Form (and Instructions)

SS-4

SS-4 Application for Employer Identification Number

982

982 Reduction of Tax Attributes Due to Discharge of
Indebtedness (and Section 1082 Basis
Adjustment)

1040

1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return

Schedule SE (Form 1040)

Schedule SE (Form 1040) Self-Employment Tax

1040-SR

1040-SR U.S. Income Tax Return for Seniors

1040-X

1040-X Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return

1041

1041 U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts

This publication explains the basic federal income tax

1041-ES

1041-ES Estimated Income Tax for Estates and

aspects of bankruptcy.

Trusts

2

Publication 908 (12-2025)
1041-V
4506
4506-T
4852

4868

7004

1041-V Payment Voucher for Estates and Trusts

4506 Request for Copy of Tax Return

4506-T Request for Transcript of Tax Return
4852 Substitute for Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement, or Form 1099-R, Distributions From
Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or
Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance
Contracts, etc.
4868 Application for Automatic Extension of Time To
File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
7004 Application for Automatic Extension of Time To
File Certain Business Income Tax, Information,
and Other Returns

See How To Get Tax Help, later, for information about get-
ting these publications and forms.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through

Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have a
tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go
to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Bankruptcy Code Tax
Compliance Requirements

Tax Returns Due for Periods Ending
Before the Bankruptcy Filing in
Chapter 13 Cases

The Bankruptcy Code requires chapter 13 debtors to file
all required tax returns for tax periods ending during

the 4-year period prior to the date of the filing of the
debtor's bankruptcy filing. All such federal tax returns
must be filed with the IRS before the date first set for the
first meeting of creditors. The debtor may request the
trustee to hold the meeting open for an additional 120
days to enable the debtor to file the returns (or until the
day the returns are due under an automatic IRS extension,
if later). After notice and hearing, the bankruptcy court
may extend the period for another 30 days.

Caution: Failure to timely file the returns can prevent
confirmation of a chapter 13 plan and result in either dis-
missal of the chapter 13 case or conversion to a chapter 7
case.

Note: An individual debtor should use their home ad-
dress when filing Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the IRS. Re-
turns should not be filed “in care of” the trustee's address.

the

Ordering tax transcripts and copies of returns. Trust-
ees may require the debtor to submit copies or transcripts
of the debtor's returns as proof of filing. The debtor can re-
quest free transcripts of the debtor's income tax returns by
filing Form 4506-T with the IRS or by going to IRS.gov/
Transcripts. Click on either “Get Transcript Online” or “Get
Transcript by Mail” to order a free copy of the transcript. If
transcript can be ordered by calling
preferred,
800-908-9946. If requested through the phone system,
the transcript will be mailed to the debtor's most current
address according to the IRS's records. Transcripts re-
quested using Form 4506-T may be mailed to any ad-
dress, including to the attention of the trustee in the debt-
or's bankruptcy case. Transcripts are normally mailed
within 10 business days of receipt of the request by the
IRS. A transcript contains most of the information on the
debtor's filed return, but it isn't a copy of the return. To re-
quest a copy of the debtor's filed return, file Form 4506
with a $30 fee for each copy of each return requested. It
may take up to 75 calendar days for the IRS to provide the
copies after receipt of the debtor's request.

Tax Returns Due After the Bankruptcy
Filing

For debtors filing bankruptcy under all chapters (chapters
7, 11, 12, and 13), the Bankruptcy Code provides that if
the debtor does not file a tax return that becomes due af-
ter the commencement of the bankruptcy case, or obtain
an extension for filing the return before the due date, the
taxing authority may request that the bankruptcy court ei-
ther dismiss the case or convert the case to a case under
another chapter of the Bankruptcy Code. If the debtor
does not file the required return or obtain an extension
within 90 days after the request is made, the bankruptcy
court must dismiss or convert the case.

Tax returns and payment of taxes in chapter 11 ca-
ses. The Bankruptcy Code provides that a chapter 11
debtor's failure to file tax returns in a timely manner and
pay taxes owed after the date of the “order for relief” (the
bankruptcy petition date in voluntary cases) is cause for

Publication 908 (12-2025)

3