make up an appropriate economic unit for the measure-
ment of gain or loss under the passive activity rules.

passive activity (trade or business activity or rental activ-
ity).

Regrouping. You must file a written statement with your
original income tax return for the tax year in which you re-
group the activities. The statement must provide the
names, addresses, and EINs, if applicable, for the activi-
ties that are being regrouped. If two or more activities are
being regrouped into a single activity, the statement must
contain a declaration that the regrouped activities make
up an appropriate economic unit for the measurement of
gain or loss under the passive activity rules. In addition,
the statement must contain an explanation of the material
change in the facts and circumstances that made the orig-
inal grouping clearly inappropriate.

Groupings by partnerships and S corporations. Part-
nerships and S corporations aren’t subject to the rules for
new grouping, addition to an existing grouping, or re-
grouping. Instead, they must comply with the disclosure
instructions for grouping activities provided in their Form
1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income, or Form 1120-S,
U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation, whichever is
applicable.

The partner or shareholder isn’t required to make a
separate disclosure of the groupings disclosed by the en-
tity unless the partner or shareholder:

• Groups together any of the activities that the entity

doesn’t group together,

• Groups the entity’s activities with activities conducted

directly by the partner or shareholder, or

• Groups an entity’s activities with activities conducted

through another entity.

A partner or shareholder may not treat activities grou-

ped together by the entity as separate activities.

Recharacterization
of Passive Income

Net income from the following passive activities may have
to be recharacterized and excluded from passive activity
income.
• Significant participation passive activities,
• Rental of property when less than 30% of the unadjus-
ted basis of the property is subject to depreciation,

• Equity-financed lending activities,
• Rental of property incidental to development activities,
• Rental of property to nonpassive activities, and
• Licensing of intangible property by

pass-through entities.

If you’re engaged in or have an interest in one of these ac-
tivities during the tax year (either directly or through a part-
nership or an S corporation), combine the income and los-
ses from the activity to determine if you have a net loss or
net income from that activity.

If the result is net income, don’t enter any of the income
or losses from the activity or property on Form 8582 or its
separate parts, as they are recharacterized as nonpas-
sive. Instead, enter income or losses on the form and
schedules you normally use. However, see Significant
Participation Passive Activities, later, if the activity is a sig-
nificant participation passive activity and you also have a
net loss from a different significant participation passive
activity.

Limit on recharacterized passive income. The total
amount that you treat as nonpassive income under the
rules described later in this discussion for significant par-
ticipation passive activities, rental of nondepreciable prop-
erty, and equity-financed lending activities can’t exceed
the greatest amount that you treat as nonpassive income
under any one of these rules.

Investment income and investment expense. To fig-
ure your investment interest expense limitation on Form
4952, treat as investment income any net passive income
recharacterized as nonpassive income from rental of non-
depreciable property, equity-financed lending activity, or li-
censing of intangible property by a pass-through entity.

Significant Participation
Passive Activities

A significant participation passive activity is any trade or
business activity in which you participated for more than
100 hours during the tax year but didn’t materially partici-
pate.

If your gross income from all significant participation
passive activities combined is more than your deductions
from those activities, a part of your net income from each
significant participation passive activity is treated as non-
passive income.

Corporations. An activity of a personal service corpora-
tion or closely held corporation is a significant participa-
tion passive activity if both of the following statements are
true.

• The corporation isn’t treated as materially participating

in the activity for the year.

• One or more individuals, each of whom is treated as

significantly participating in the activity, directly or indi-
rectly, hold (in total) more than 50% (by value) of the
corporation’s outstanding stock.

Worksheet A. Complete Worksheet A. Significant Partici-
pation Passive Activities if you have income or losses from
any significant participation activity. Begin by entering the
name of each activity in the left column.

Column (a). Enter the number of hours you participa-

ted in each activity and total the column.

If the result is a net loss, treat the income and losses
the same as any other income or losses from that type of

If the total is more than 500, don’t complete Worksheet
A or B. None of the activities are passive activities

Publication 925 (2025)

15