Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Contents

Publication 901
(Rev. September 2024)
Cat. No. 46849F

U.S. Tax
Treaties

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Sep 19, 2024

What’s New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Application of Treaties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Tax Exemptions Provided by Treaties . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Personal Services Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Professors, Teachers, and Researchers . . . . . . . 24
Students and Apprentices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Wages and Pensions Paid by a Foreign

Government

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Taxpayer Assistance Inside the United States . . . 52

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 901, such as treaties effective after it was published,
go to IRS.gov/Pub901.

What’s New
U.S.-Chile income tax treaty. The United States and
Chile entered into a tax treaty on December 19, 2023. The
treaty is effective for withholding taxes on payments made
on or after February 1, 2024, and is effective for tax years
beginning on or after January 1, 2024, for any other taxes.
U.S.-Hungary income tax treaty. On July 8, 2022, the
United States terminated the income tax treaty between
the government of the United States and the government
of the Hungarian People's Republic. The termination of
the treaty is effective for withholding taxes on payments
made on or after January 1, 2024, and is effective for tax
years beginning on or after January 1, 2024, for any other
taxes.
U.S.-Russia income tax treaty. On July 1, 2024, the
United States provided formal notice to the Russian Fed-
eration to confirm the suspension of paragraph 4 of Article
1, and Articles 5-21 and 23 of the income tax treaty be-
tween the United States and the Russian Federation, as
well as the accompanying Protocol, by mutual agreement.
The suspension of the treaty is effective both for taxes
withheld at source and in respect of other taxes on August
16, 2024. The suspension will continue until otherwise de-
cided by the two governments.

Reminders
Disclosure of a treaty-based position that reduces
your tax. If you take the position that any U.S. tax is over-
(a
ruled or otherwise
treaty-based position), you must generally disclose that

reduced by a U.S.

treaty
position on your affected return. See Application of Trea-
ties, later.

tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Tax treaty tables. The tax treaty tables previously con-
tained in this publication have been updated and moved to
IRS.gov. You can locate the tables on IRS.gov by entering
"Tax Treaty Table" in the search box. Click on "Tax Treaty
Tables." You can also access the tables by going to
IRS.gov/TreatyTables.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

U.S.-U.S.S.R. income tax treaty. The U.S.-U.S.S.R. in-
come tax treaty remains in effect for the following mem-
bers of the Commonwealth of Independent States (C.I.S.):
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Mol-
dova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. That
treaty will remain in effect until new treaties with these indi-
vidual countries are negotiated and ratified. Provisions of
the U.S.-U.S.S.R. income tax treaty are discussed in this
publication under Commonwealth of Independent States,
later.

U.S.-China income tax treaty. The U.S.-China income
tax treaty does not apply to Hong Kong.

Introduction
This publication will tell you whether a tax treaty between
the United States and a particular country offers a re-
duced rate of, or possibly a complete exemption from,
U.S. income tax for residents of that particular country.

You should use this publication only for quick ref-
erence. It is not a complete guide to all provisions
of every income tax treaty.

For more detailed information on treaty benefits, you
should consult the text of the applicable treaty. The trea-
ties are available at IRS.gov/TreatyTables.

Obtaining copies of treaties. You can get complete in-
formation about treaty provisions from the taxing authority
in the country from which you receive income or from the
treaty itself.

You can obtain the text of most of the treaties at
IRS.gov/TreatyTables. You can also obtain the text of most
of the treaties at the following address.

Department of the Treasury
Office of Public Correspondence
1500 Pennsylvania Ave. NW — Rm. 3419
Washington, DC 20220

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through

Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

519

519 U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens

597

597 Information on the United States–Canada
Income Tax Treaty

Form (and Instructions)

8833

8833 Treaty-Based Return Position Disclosure
Under Section 6114 or 7701(b)

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications and forms.

Application of Treaties

The United States has income tax treaties with a number
of foreign countries. Under these treaties, residents (not
necessarily citizens) of foreign countries are taxed at a re-
duced rate, or are exempt from U.S. income taxes on cer-
tain items of income they receive from sources within the
United States. These reduced rates and exemptions vary
among countries and specific items of income.

If there is no treaty between your country and the Uni-
ted States, you must pay tax on the income in the same
way and at the same rates shown in the Instructions for
Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien
Income Tax
Return. Also see Pub. 519 at IRS.gov/Pub519.

Many of the individual states of the United States tax
the income of their residents. Therefore, you should con-
sult the tax authorities of the state in which you live to find
out if that state taxes the income of individuals and, if so,
whether the tax applies to any of your income.

Tax treaties reduce the U.S. income taxes of residents
of foreign countries. With certain exceptions, they do not
reduce the U.S. income taxes of U.S. citizens or residents.

2

Publication 901 (9-2024)

!

CAUTION
U.S. citizens and residents are subject to U.S. income tax
on their worldwide income.

means a day during any part of which you are physically
present in the United States.

Treaty provisions are generally reciprocal (apply to both
treaty countries); therefore, a U.S. citizen or resident who
receives income from a treaty country may refer to the ta-
bles in this publication to see if a tax treaty might affect the
tax to be paid to that foreign country. Foreign taxing au-
thorities sometimes require certification from the U.S.
Government that an applicant filed an income tax return
as a U.S. citizen or resident, as part of the proof of entitle-
ment to the treaty benefits. See Form 8802, Application for
United States Residency Certification, to request a certifi-
cation.

Terms defined. Several terms appear in many of the dis-
cussions that follow. The exact meanings of the terms are
determined by the particular tax treaty under discussion;
thus, the meanings vary among treaties. The definitions
that follow are therefore general definitions that may not
give the exact meaning intended by a particular treaty.

The terms “fixed base” and “permanent establishment”
generally mean a fixed place of business, such as a place
of management, a branch, an office, a factory, a ware-
house, or a mining site through which an enterprise car-
ries on its business.

to

treaty

reduced by a U.S.

Disclosure of a treaty-based position that reduces
your tax. If you take the position that any U.S. tax is over-
(a
ruled or otherwise
treaty-based position), you must generally disclose that
position on Form 8833 and attach it to your return. If you
are not required
file a return because of your
treaty-based position, you must file a return anyway to re-
port your position. The filing of Form 8833 does not apply
to a reduced rate of withholding tax on noneffectively con-
nected income, such as dividends, interest, rents, or royal-
ties, or to a reduced rate of tax on pay received for serv-
ices performed as an employee, including pensions,
annuities, and social security. For more information, see
Pub. 519 and the Form 8833 instructions.

If you fail to file Form 8833, you may have to pay a
$1,000 penalty. Corporations are subject to a $10,000
penalty for each failure.

Tax Exemptions Provided by
Treaties

This publication contains discussions of the exemptions
from tax and certain other effects of the tax treaties on the
following types of income.

• Pay for certain personal services performed in the Uni-

ted States.

• Pay of a professor, teacher, or researcher who

teaches or performs research in the United States for
a limited time.

• Amounts received for maintenance and studies by a
foreign student or apprentice who is here for study or
experience.

• Wages, salaries, and pensions paid by a foreign gov-

ernment.

Personal Services Income

Pay for certain personal services performed in the United
States is exempt from U.S. income tax if you are a resident
of one of the countries discussed below, if you are in the
United States for a limited number of days, and if you meet
certain other conditions. For this purpose, the word “day”

The term “borne by” generally means having ultimate fi-
nancial accounting responsibility for, or providing the mon-
etary resources for, an expenditure or payment, even if an-
the
other entity
expenditure or payment.

location actually made

in another

Australia

Income that residents of Australia receive for performing
personal services as independent contractors or self-em-
ployed individuals (independent personal services) in the
United States during the tax year is exempt from U.S. in-
come tax if the residents:

• Are in the United States for no more than 183 days

during the tax year, and

• Do not have a fixed base regularly available to them in
the United States for the purpose of performing the
services.

If they have a fixed base available in the United States,
they are taxed on the income attributable to the fixed
base.

Pay that residents of Australia receive for labor or per-
sonal services performed in the United States as employ-
ees (dependent personal services), including services as
a director of a company, is exempt from U.S. income tax if:
• The residents are in the United States for no more

than 183 days during the tax year;

• The pay is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer or

company that is not a resident of the United States;
and

• The pay is not deductible in determining the taxable
income of the trade or business of the employer (or
company) in the United States.

These exemptions do not apply to entertainers (such as
theater, motion picture, radio, or television artists; or musi-
cians) or athletes from Australia who earn more than
$10,000 in gross receipts, including reimbursed expenses,
from their entertainment or athletic activities in the United
States during the tax year.

Publication 901 (9-2024)

3
China, People's Republic of

An individual who is a resident of the People's Republic of
China and who is temporarily in the United States primar-
ily to teach, lecture, or conduct research at a university or
other accredited educational institution or scientific re-
search institution is exempt from U.S. income tax on in-
come for the teaching, lecturing, or research for a total of
not more than 3 years.

The exemption does not apply to income from research
carried on mainly for the private benefit of any person
rather than in the public interest.

Commonwealth of Independent States
(C.I.S.)

An individual who is a resident of a C.I.S. member on the
date of arrival in the United States and who is temporarily
in the United States at the invitation of the U.S. Govern-
ment or an educational or scientific research institution in
the United States primarily to teach, engage in research,
or participate in scientific, technical, or professional con-
ferences is exempt from U.S. income tax on income for
teaching, research, or participation in these conferences
for a maximum period of 2 years.

The exemption does not apply to income from research
carried on mainly for the benefit of a private person, in-
cluding a commercial enterprise of the United States or a
foreign trade organization of a C.I.S. member.

The exemption does, however, apply if the research is
conducted through an intergovernmental agreement on
cooperation.

The exemption also applies to journalists and corre-
spondents who are temporarily in the United States for pe-
riods not longer than 2 years and who receive their com-
pensation from abroad. It is not necessary that the
journalists or correspondents be invited by the U.S. Gov-
ernment or other appropriate institution, nor does it matter
that they are employed by a private person, including
commercial enterprises and foreign trade organizations.

Czech Republic

An individual is exempt from U.S. income tax on income
for teaching or research for up to 2 years if they:

• Are a resident of the Czech Republic immediately be-

fore visiting the United States; and

• Are in the United States primarily to teach or conduct
research at a university, college, school, or other ac-
credited educational or research institution.

A Czech resident is entitled to these benefits only once.

However, the exemption does not apply if:
• The resident claimed during the immediate preceding
period the benefits described later under Students
and Apprentices, or

• The income is from research undertaken primarily for
the private benefit of a specific person or persons.

Egypt

An individual who is a resident of Egypt on the date of ar-
rival in the United States and who is temporarily in the Uni-
ted States primarily to teach or engage in research, or
both, at a university or other recognized educational insti-
tution is exempt from U.S. income tax on income from the
teaching or research for a maximum of 2 years from the
date of arrival in the United States. The individual must
have been invited to the United States for a period not ex-
pected to be longer than 2 years by the U.S. Government
or a state or local government, or by a university or other
recognized educational institution in the United States.

The exemption does not apply if the resident claimed,
during the immediately preceding period, the benefits de-
scribed later under Students and Apprentices.

The exemption does not apply to income from research
carried on mainly for the private benefit of any person
rather than in the public interest.

France

An individual who is a resident of France on the date of ar-
rival in the United States and who is temporarily in the Uni-
ted States at the invitation of the U.S. Government, a uni-
versity, or other recognized educational or research
institution in the United States primarily to teach or en-
gage in research, or both, at a university or other educa-
tional or research institution is exempt from U.S. income
tax on income from teaching or research for a maximum of
2 years from the date of arrival in the United States.

An individual may claim this benefit only once. Also,
this benefit and the benefits described later under Stu-
dents and Apprentices can be claimed for no more than 5
years.

The exemption does not apply to income from research
carried on mainly for the private benefit of any person
rather than in the public interest.

Germany

A professor or teacher who is a resident of Germany and
who is temporarily in the United States to engage in ad-
vanced study or research or teaching at an accredited ed-
ucational institution or institution engaged in research for
the public benefit is exempt from U.S. tax on income re-
ceived for such study, research, or teaching for a maxi-
mum of 2 years from the date of arrival in the United
States.

The exemption does not apply to income from research
carried on mainly for the private benefit of any person
rather than in the public interest. The exemption does not
apply if, during the preceding period, the benefit described

Publication 901 (9-2024)

25