• We’re considering your request for a payment plan or Offer in

Compromise. If your request is rejected, we will suspend collection
for another 30 days, and during any period Appeals is considering
your appeal request.

• Collection may be suspended for the period you’re outside the U.S.

if you live outside the U.S. continuously for at least 6 months.

• The tax periods we’re collecting on are included in a bankruptcy with
an automatic stay. We will suspend collection for the time period we
can’t collect because of the automatic stay, plus 6 months.

• You request a Collection Due Process hearing. Collection will be
suspended from the date of your request until 30 days after a
Notice of Determination is issued or if you file a timely petition to
the Tax Court, until or the Tax Court’s decision is final (including the
exhaustion of all rights of appeal following the Tax Court decision).

• We’re considering your request for Innocent Spouse Relief. Collec-
tion will be suspended from the date of your request until 90 days
after a Notice of Determination is issued, or if you file a timely
petition to the Tax Court, until 60 days after the Tax Court’s final
decision. If you appeal the Tax Court’s decision to a U.S. Court of
Appeals, the collection period will begin 60 days after the appeal is
filed, unless a bond is posted.

For additional information about statute expiration dates, see www.www.
irs.gov/filing/time-irs-can-collect-tax.
irs.gov/filing/time-irs-can-collect-tax

How to appeal an IRS decision
You have the right to appeal most collection actions to Appeals.
Appeals is separate from and independent of the IRS Collection
office that initiates collection actions. Appeals ensures and protects
its independence by adhering to a strict policy prohibiting certain
communications with the IRS Collection office or other IRS offices,
such as discussions regarding the strength or weakness of your
case. When an IRS office is to be engaged in discussions, you will
be invited to participate in the conference, or provided any written
document to give you an opportunity to comment. Your main options
for appeals are the following: Collection Due Process or Collection
Appeals Program.

Collection Due Process
The purpose of a Collection Due Process hearing is to have Appeals
review collection actions that were taken or have been proposed.
After Appeals has made their determination and you do not agree,
you can go to court to appeal the Appeals’ Collection Due Process
determination. You can request a Collection Due Process hearing if
you receive any of the following notices:

• Notice of Federal Tax Lien Filing and Your Right to a Hearing

• Final Notice—Notice of Intent to Levy and Notice of Your Right to a

Hearing

• Notice of Jeopardy Levy and Right of Appeal

• Notice of Levy on Your State Tax Refund—Notice of Your Right to a

Hearing

• Notice of Levy and of Your Right to a Hearing

Form 12153,

To request a Collection Due Process hearing, complete Form 12153
Request for a Collection Due Process or Equivalent Hearing or a
written request containing the same information as contained in Form
12153, and send it to the address on your notice. You must request
a Collection Due Process hearing by the date indicated in the notice
we send you (for proposed levies, that date is 30 days from the date
of the letter). The request must be filed timely to preserve your right
to judicial review of the determination issued in your Collection Due
Process hearing. If your request for a Collection Due Process hearing is
not timely, you can request an Equivalent Hearing within one year from
the date of the notice, but you cannot go to court if you disagree with
Appeals’ decision. If your request is not received timely, and you can
demonstrate that you were diligent and the circumstances for being

late were extraordinary and beyond your control, your right to request a
Collection Due Process or Equivalent Hearing may still be preserved.
During a Collection Due Process hearing, the 10-year period for
collecting taxes is suspended and we are generally prohibited from
seizing (levying) your property, if seizing your property is the subject
of the hearing. We are permitted to seize your property during an
Equivalent Hearing or a Collection Due Process hearing about filing of
a Notice of Federal Tax Lien, but normally we will not seize property
during these hearings. The 10-year period for collecting taxes is not
suspended during an Equivalent Hearing.

You are entitled to only one Collection Due Process lien hearing and
one levy hearing for each tax period or assessment. You are entitled
to propose collection alternatives, such as entering into a payment
plan or an offer-in-compromise, for consideration by Appeals in the
hearing. It may be necessary for you to submit financial information or
tax returns to qualify for such collection alternatives.

All issues should be raised and all necessary supporting information
presented to Appeals at the hearing. You are prevented from raising
issues during a judicial review that were not properly raised with
Appeals in the Collection Due Process hearing. Your Appeals confer-
ence may be held by telephone, correspondence, or, if you qualify, in
an in-person conference at the Appeals office closest to your home or
place of business. You may be denied an in-person conference if you
raise issues that are deemed frivolous or made with a desire solely
to delay or impede collection. For a nonexclusive listing of issues
identified by the IRS as frivolous, see The Truth About Frivolous Tax
The Truth About Frivolous Tax
Arguments on IRS.gov. For more information about Collection Due
Arguments
Publication 1660.
Process see Publication 1660

Collection Appeals Program
Under the Collections Appeals Program, if you disagree with an IRS
employee’s decision regarding any levy, seizure, or Notice of Federal
Tax Lien filing and want to appeal it, you can ask to have a confer-
ence with the employee’s manager. If we seize your house, car, or
other property in order to sell your interest in the property to apply
the proceeds to your tax debt, you must make the request within 10
business days after the Notice of Seizure is given to you or left at your
home or business. There is no deadline to request a manager confer-
ence when a levy is served for other types of property (such as wages
or bank accounts) or a levy or seizure or Notice of Federal Tax Lien
filing is proposed. The collection action may go forward if a confer-
ence is not requested within a reasonable time period.

If you then disagree with the manager’s decision, you may request
Appeals review your case under the Collection Appeals Program as
outlined in Publication 1660
Publication 1660. Let the Collection office know within 2
business days after the conference with the Collection manager that
you plan to submit a Form 9423
Form 9423. The Form 9423 must be received or
postmarked within 3 business days of the conference with the Collec-
tion manager or collection may resume.

If you request a conference and are not contacted by a manager or
their designee within 2 business days of making the request, you may
contact Collection again and request Appeals consideration. If you
submit Form 9423, note the date of your request for a conference in
Block 15 and indicate that you were not contacted by a manager. The
Form 9423 should be received or postmarked within 4 business days
of your request for a conference as collection action may resume.
Submit Form 9423 to the Revenue Officer involved in the lien, levy or
seizure action.

If you file a Collection Appeals Request and do not agree with
Appeals decisions, you cannot proceed to court.

Instances in which you can pursue the Collection Appeals Program
include, but aren’t limited to:

• Before or after we file a Notice of Federal Tax Lien

• Before or after we seize (“levy”) your property

4
• After we reject, terminate, or propose to terminate your payment
plan (a conference with the manager is recommended, but not
required). Submit your written Installment Agreement Appeal
request, preferably using Form 9423
within the timeframe listed in your notice.

Form 9423, Collection Appeal Request,

Publication 1660, Collection

For more information about the Collection Due Process and Collec-
tion Appeals Program, please see Publication 1660
Appeal Rights.
If you don’t pay on time:
Understanding collection actions
Federal Tax Lien: A legal claim against property
A lien is a legal claim against all your current and future property.
When you don’t pay your first bill for taxes due, a lien is created by
law and attaches to your property. It applies to property (such as
your home and car) and to any current and future rights you have to
property (such as wages and bank accounts).

Notice of Federal Tax Lien: Provides public notice to
creditors that a lien exists

A Notice of Federal Tax Lien gives public notice to creditors. We file
the Notice of Federal Tax Lien so we can establish the priority of our
claim versus the claims of other creditors. The Notice of Federal Tax
Lien is filed with local or state authorities, such as county recorder of
deeds or the Secretary of State offices.

Employers, landlords and others may also use this information and
not favorably view the fact that a Notice of Federal Tax Lien has been
filed against you. However by law, there will be no filing of the Notice
of Federal Tax Lien and no levies issued to collect an individual shared
responsibility payment associated with the Affordable Care Act.

What to do if a Notice of Federal Tax Lien is filed against you
You should pay the full amount you owe immediately. The Notice of
Federal Tax Lien only shows your assessed balance as of the date
of the notice. It doesn’t show your payoff balance or include our
charges for filing and releasing the lien. To find out the full amount you
must pay to have the lien released, call 1-800-913-6050 or 859-320-
3526 if you are calling from outside of the United States. If you have
questions, call the number on your lien notice or 1-800-829-1040
(individuals) or 1-800-829-4933 (businesses) or visit www.irs.gov/
www.irs.gov/
Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Understanding-a-
Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Understanding-a-
Federal-Tax-Lien.
Federal-Tax-Lien

How to appeal a Notice of Federal Tax Lien
Within five business days of the first filing of the Notice of Federal
Tax Lien for a specific debt, we will send you a Notice of Federal Tax
Lien Filing and Your Right to a Collection Due Process Hearing. You’ll
have until the date shown on the notice to request a Collection Due
Process hearing with Appeals. For more information, see Form 12153
Request for a Collection Due Process or Equivalent Hearing.

Form 12153,

After your Collection Due Process hearing, Appeals will issue a deter-
mination on whether the Notice of Federal Tax Lien should remain
filed, or whether it should be withdrawn or released. If you disagree
with the determination, you have 30 days after it’s made to seek a
review in the U.S. Tax Court. The Tax Court may consider a petition
submitted after the 30-day period if you can demonstrate that you
were diligent and that the circumstances for being late were extraordi-
nary and beyond your control.

In addition to any Collection Due Process rights you may have, you
may also appeal a proposed or actual filing of a Notice of Federal Tax
Lien under the Collection Appeals Program.

Reasons we will “release” a Federal Tax Lien
A “release” of a Federal Tax Lien means that we have cleared both
the lien for your debt and the public Notice of Federal Tax Lien. We do

this by filing a Certificate of Release of Federal Tax Lien with the same
state and local authorities with whom we filed your Notice of Federal
Tax Lien. We will release your lien if:
• Your debt is fully paid,

• Payment of your debt is guaranteed by a bond, or

• You have met the payment terms of an Offer in Compromise which

the IRS has accepted, or

• The period for collection has ended. (In this case, the release is

automatic.)

For more information, see Publication 1450
Requesting a Certificate of Release of Federal Tax Lien.

Publication 1450, Instructions for

Reasons we may “withdraw” a Notice of Federal Tax Lien
A “withdrawal” removes the Notice of Federal Tax Lien from public
record. The withdrawal tells other creditors that we’re abandoning our
lien priority. This doesn’t mean that the Federal Tax Lien is released or
that you’re no longer liable for the amount due.

We may withdraw a Notice of Federal Tax Lien if:

• You’ve entered into a payment plan to satisfy the tax liability, unless
the Agreement provides otherwise. For certain types of taxes, we
routinely grant Notice of Federal Tax Lien withdrawal requests if
you’ve entered into a direct debit payment plan and meet certain
other conditions,

• It will help you pay your taxes more quickly,

• We didn’t follow IRS procedures,

• It was filed during a bankruptcy automatic stay period, or

• It’s in your best interest and in the best interest of the government.
For example, this could include when your debt has been satisfied
and you request a withdrawal.

For more information, see Form 12277
of Filed Notice of Federal Tax Lien.

Form 12277, Application for Withdrawal

How to apply for a “discharge” of a Federal Tax Lien from property
A “discharge” removes specific property from the federal tax lein.
There are several circumstances under which a discharge may
be granted. For example, we may issue a Certificate of Discharge
if you’re selling property and the government receives its interest
through the sale. For more information on whether you qualify for a
discharge, see Publication 783
Publication 783, How to Apply for a Certificate of
Discharge of Property from Federal Tax Lien.

How to make the Federal Tax Lien secondary to other creditors
(“subordination”)
A “subordination” is where a creditor is allowed to move ahead of
the government’s priority position. For example, if you’re trying to
refinance a mortgage on your home, but aren’t able to because the
federal tax lien has priority over the new mortgage, you may request
that we subordinate our lien to the new mortgage. For more informa-
tion on whether you qualify for a subordination, see Publication 784
Publication 784,
How to Apply for a Certificate of Subordination of Federal Tax Lien.

Appeal rights for withdrawal, discharge or subordination
Form 9423, Collection
If your application is denied you will receive Form 9423
Appeal Request and Publication 1660
Publication 1660, Collection Appeal Rights,
with an explanation of why your application was denied. If we deny
your request for a withdrawal, discharge, or subordination, you may
appeal under the Collections Appeals Program.

Levy: A seizure of property
While a federal tax lien is a legal claim against your property, a levy is
a legal seizure that actually takes your property (such as your house
or car) or your rights to property (such as your income, bank account,
retirement account or Social Security payments) to satisfy your tax
debt. There is no legal difference between a seizure and a levy.
Throughout this publication, we will use both terms interchangeably.

5
We can’t issue a new levy if you have a current or pending payment
plan, Offer in Compromise, or if we agree that you’re unable to pay
due to economic hardship, meaning seizing your property would
result in your inability to meet basic, reasonable living expenses.

Reasons we may seize (“levy”) your property or rights to property
If you don’t pay your taxes (or make arrangements to settle your
debt), we could seize and sell your property. We will not seize your
property to collect an individual shared responsibility payment. We
usually seize only after the following things have occurred.

• We assessed the tax and sent you a bill,

• You neglected or refused to pay the tax, and

• We sent you a Final Notice of Intent to Levy and Notice of Your

Right to a Hearing at least 30 days before the seizure.

However, there are exceptions for when we don’t have to offer you a
hearing at least 30 days before seizing your property. These include
situations when:

• The collection of the tax is in jeopardy,

• A levy is served to collect tax from a state tax refund,

• A levy is served to collect the tax debt of a federal contractor, or

• A Disqualified Employment Tax Levy (DETL) is served. A DETL is

the seizure of unpaid employment taxes and can be served when a
taxpayer previously requested a Collection Due Process appeal on
employment taxes for other periods within the past 2 years.

If we serve a levy under one of these exceptions, we will send you
a letter explaining the seizure and your appeal rights after the levy is
issued.

What you should do if your property is seized (“levied”)
If your property is seized, call the number on your levy notice or 1-800-
829-1040 (individuals) or 1-800-829-4933 (businesses). If you’re
already working with an IRS employee, call them for assistance.

Examples of property we can seize (“levy”)
• Wages, salary, or commission held by someone else. If we seize
your rights to wages, salary, commissions, or similar payments that
are held by someone else, we will serve a levy once, not each time
you’re paid. The one levy continues until your debt is fully paid, other
arrangements are made, or the collection period ends, or the levy
is released. Other payments you receive, such as dividends and
payments on promissory notes, are also subject to seizure. However,
the seizure only reaches the payments due or the right to future
payments as of the date of the levy.

• Your bank account. Seizure of the funds in your bank account

will include funds available for withdrawal up to the amount of the
seizure. After the levy is issued, the bank will hold the available
funds and give you 21 days to resolve any disputes about who
owns the account before sending us the money. After 21 days,
the bank will send us your money, and any interest earned on that
amount, unless you have resolved the issue in another way.

• Your retirement account, including Qualified Pension, Profit Sharing,
and Stock Bonus Plans under ERISA; IRAs, Retirement Plans for
the Self-Employed (such as SEP-IRAs and Keogh Plans) and the
Thrift Savings Plan. Depending on the terms of the plan a levy may
attach to the funds in which you have a vested right.

• Your federal payments. As an alternative to the levy procedure

used for other payments such as dividends and promissory notes,
certain federal payments may be systemically seized through the
Federal Payment Levy Program in order to pay your tax debt.
Under this program, we can generally seize up to 15% of your
federal payments (up to 100% of payments due to a vendor for
property, goods or services sold or leased to the federal govern-
ment). We will serve the levy once, not each time you are paid. The
levy continues until your debt is fully paid, other arrangements are
made, the collection period ends, or the IRS releases the levy. The
federal payments that can be seized in this program include, but

6

aren’t limited to, federal retirement annuity income from the Office
of Personnel Management, Social Security benefits under Title II
of the Social Security Act (OASDI), and federal contractor/vendor
payments. For additional information about the Federal Payment
www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-
Levy Program, see www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-
self-employed/federal-payment-levy-program.
self-employed/federal-payment-levy-program

• Your house, car, or other property. If we seize your house or other
property, we will sell your interest in the property and apply the
proceeds (after the costs of the seizure and sale) to your tax
debt. Prior to selling your property, we will seizure and calculate
a minimum bid price. We will also provide you with a copy of the
calculation and give you an opportunity to challenge the fair market
value determination. We will then provide you with the notice of sale
and announce the pending sale to the public, usually through local
newspapers or flyers posted in public places. The IRS may use
additional means of announcing the sale if it believes doing so may
enhance the possibility of obtaining a higher price for the property.
After giving public notice, we will generally wait 10 days before
selling your property. Money from the sale pays for the cost of
seizing and selling the property and, finally, your tax debt. If there’s
money left over from the sale after paying off your tax debt, we will
tell you how to get a refund.

Property that can’t be seized (“levied”)
Certain property is exempt from seizure. For example, we can’t seize
the following: unemployment benefits, certain annuity and pension
benefits, certain service-connected disability payments, worker’s
compensation, certain public assistance payments, minimum weekly
exempt income, assistance under the Job Training Partnership Act,
and income for court-ordered child support payments.

We also can’t seize necessary schoolbooks and clothing, undelivered
mail, certain amounts worth of fuel, provisions, furniture, personal
effects for a household, and certain amounts worth of books and
tools for trade, business, or professions. There are also limitations on
our ability to seize a principal residence and certain business assets.

Lastly, we can’t seize your property unless we expect net proceeds to
help pay off your tax debt.

How to appeal a proposed seizure (“levy”)
You can request a Collection Due Process hearing within 30 days
from the date of your Notice of Intent to Levy and Notice of Your Right
to a Hearing. Send your request to the address on your notice. For
Form 12153, Request for a Collection Due
more information, see Form 12153
Process or Equivalent Hearing. At the conclusion of your hearing,
the Office of Appeals will provide a determination. You’ll have 30 days
after the determination to challenge it in the U.S. Tax Court. The Tax
Court may consider a petition submitted after the 30-day period if you
can demonstrate that you were diligent and that the circumstances
for being late were extraordinary and beyond your control. If Collec-
tion Due Process rights aren’t available for your case, you may have
other appeal options, such as the Collection Appeals Program.

Reasons we “release” a levy
The Internal Revenue Code specifically provides that we must release
a levy if we determine that:

• You paid the amount you owe,

• The period for collection ended prior to the levy being issued,

• It will help you pay your taxes,

• You enter into a payment plan and the terms of the agreement don’t

allow for the levy to continue,

• The levy creates an economic hardship, meaning we’ve deter-

mined the levy prevents you from meeting basic, reasonable living
expenses, or

• The value of the property is more than the amount owed and

releasing the levy won’t hinder our ability to collect the amount owed.