rule) if both countries consider you to be a resi-
dent under their domestic tax laws (a dual-resi-
dent taxpayer).

Dual-resident taxpayers who are Canadian
residents under a tie-breaker rule. If you
are a dual-resident taxpayer because you have
a U.S. green card but you determine under the
tie-breaker rule that you are a resident of Can-
ada, you may claim treaty benefits and compute
your U.S. income tax as a nonresident alien.
But you must file a U.S. income tax return by
the due date (including extensions) using Form
1040NR or Form 1040NR-EZ. You must also
completed Form 8833,
attach a
Treaty-Based Return Position Disclosure Under
Section 6114 or 7701(b). For more information,
see Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.

fully

Dual-resident taxpayers who are not Cana-
dian residents under a tie-breaker rule. If
you are a dual resident of the United States and
a third country and derive income from Canada,
you can only claim treaty benefits from Canada
if you have a substantial presence, permanent
home or habitual abode in the United States,
and your personal and economic relations are
closer to the United States than to any third
state.

If you are a U.S. citizen or green card holder
living in Canada, you still have to file a Form
1040 and report your worldwide income be-
cause of the “saving clause” in Article XXIX(2),
which allows the United States to tax its citizens
and residents as if the treaty had not entered
into effect. There are limited exceptions to the
saving clause, which means certain types of in-
come may be exempt from tax in the United
States. Exceptions to the saving clause can be
found in Article XXIX, paragraph 3.

Special foreign tax credit rules for U.S. citi-
zens residing in Canada. If you are a U.S.
citizen and a resident of Canada, special for-
eign tax credit rules may apply to relieve double
tax on income from the United States. See Arti-
cle XXIV(3), (4) and (5). For more information
about foreign tax credit rules generally, see In-
come Tax Credits, later.

Example. As a U.S. citizen residing in Can-
ada, you have dividend income from a U.S. cor-
poration. Canada will tax you on your worldwide
income, including your U.S. dividend income.
As a resident of Canada under the treaty you
can claim a reduced withholding rate from the
United States on the dividend income (15%)
rather than 30%, and Canada generally allows
you to deduct the U.S. withholding tax from your
Canadian tax on that income. However, you still
need to file a U.S. income tax return and report
your worldwide income, and pay any residual
tax to the United States, to the extent it exceeds
the U.S. tax withheld and the Canadian tax paid
with respect to the income.

Income from self-employment (Article VII).
Income from services performed (other than
those performed as an employee) are taxed in
Canada if they are attributable to a permanent
establishment
is
treated as business profits, and taxable on a net
basis in Canada in accordance with Article
VII(3).

in Canada. This

income

Page 2

If you carry on (or have carried on) business
in Canada through a permanent establishment,
Canada may tax the profits the permanent es-
tablishment might be expected to make if it
were a distinct and separate person. The busi-
ness profits attributable to the permanent estab-
lishment include only those profits derived from
assets used, risks assumed, and activities per-
formed by the permanent establishment.

You may be considered to have a perma-
nent establishment if you meet certain condi-
tions. For more information, see Article V (Per-
manent Establishment)
and Article VII
(Business Profits).

Services permanent establishment (Article
V Paragraph 9). Under paragraph 9 of Article
V, if you, or your enterprise, provide services in
Canada, you may be treated as providing them
through a permanent establishment in Canada
even if you do not have a fixed base in Canada
from which you operate. This rule applies, how-
ever, only if:

1. You are present in Canada for more than
183 days in a 12-month period, and, dur-
ing that period or periods, more than 50
percent of your gross active business rev-
enues consist of income derived from your
services performed in Canada; or

2. Your enterprise provides services in Can-
ada for an aggregate of 183 days or more
in any 12-month period with respect to the
same or connected project for customers
who are either residents of Canada or who
maintain a permanent establishment in
Canada and your services are provided in
respect of that permanent establishment.
This rule applies to tax years beginning af-
ter January 1, 2010.

Personal Services

A U.S. citizen or resident who is temporarily
present in Canada during the tax year is exempt
from Canadian income taxes on pay for serv-
ices performed, or remittances received from
the United States, if the citizen or resident quali-
fies under one of the treaty exemption provi-
sions set out below.

Income from employment (Article XV). In-
come U.S. residents receive for the perform-
ance of dependent personal services in Canada
(except as public entertainers) is exempt from
Canadian tax if it is not more than $10,000 in
Canadian currency for the year. If it is more than
$10,000 for the year, it is exempt only if:

1. The residents are present in Canada for
no more than 183 days in any 12-month
period beginning or ending in the year
concerned, and

2. The income is not paid by, or on behalf of,
a Canadian resident and is not borne by a
permanent establishment in Canada.

Whether there is a permanent estab-
lishment in Canada is determined by
the rules set forth in Article V.

Example. You are a U.S. resident em-
ployed under an 8-month contract with a Cana-
dian firm to install equipment in their Montreal
plant. During the calendar year you were physi-
cally present in Canada for 179 days and were
paid $16,500 (Canadian) for your services. Al-
though you were in Canada for not more than
183 days during the year, your income is not ex-
empt from Canadian income tax because it was
paid by a Canadian resident and was more than
$10,000 (Canadian) for the year.

Pay received by a U.S. resident for work
regularly done in more than one country as an
employee on a ship, aircraft, motor vehicle, or
train operated by a U.S. resident is exempt from
Canadian tax.

Income from self-employment (Article VII).
Income from services performed (other than
those performed as an employee) are taxed in
Canada if they are attributable to a permanent
establishment
is
treated as business profits, and deductions sim-
ilar to those allowed under U.S. law are allowa-
ble.

in Canada. This

income

If you carry on (or have carried on) business
in both Canada and the United States, the busi-
ness profits are attributable to each country
based on the profits that the permanent estab-
lishment might be expected to make if it were a
distinct and separate person engaged in the
same or similar activities. The business profits
attributable to the permanent establishment in-
clude only those profits derived from assets
used, risks assumed, and activities performed
by the permanent establishment.

You may be considered to have a perma-
nent establishment if you meet certain condi-
tions. For more information, see Article V (Per-
manent Establishment)
and Article VII
(Business Profits).

Public entertainers (Article XVI). The provi-
sions under income from employment or in-
come from self-employment do not apply to
public entertainers (such as theater, motion pic-
ture, radio, or television artistes, musicians, or
athletes) from the United States who receive
more than $15,000 in gross receipts in Cana-
dian currency, including reimbursed expenses,
from their entertainment activities in Canada
during the calendar year. However, this provi-
sion for public entertainers does not apply (and
the other provisions will apply) to athletes par-
ticipating in team sports in leagues with regu-
larly scheduled games in both the United States
and Canada.

Compensation paid by the U.S. Govern-
ment (Article XIX). Wages, salaries, and simi-
lar income (other than pensions) paid to a U.S.
citizen by the United States or any of its agen-
cies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions
for discharging governmental functions are ex-
empt from Canadian income tax.

The exemption does not apply to pay for
services performed in connection with any trade
or business carried on for profit by the United
States, or any of its agencies, instrumentalities,
or political subdivisions.

Students and apprentices (Article XX). A
full-time student, apprentice, or business

Publication 597 (October 2015)

TIP