Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 559, such as
it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub 559.

legislation enacted after

Reminders
Excess deductions on termination. Under IRS.gov/irb/
2020–45_IRB#TD-9918, each excess deduction on termi-
nation of an estate or trust retains its separate character
as an amount allowed in arriving at adjusted gross income
(AGI), a non-miscellaneous itemized deduction, or a mis-
cellaneous itemized deduction. For more information, see
the Instructions for Form 1041.

Consistent treatment of estate and trust items. Bene-
ficiaries must generally treat estate items the same way on
their individual returns as they are treated on the estate's
return.

Consistent basis reporting between estate and per-
son acquiring property from a decedent. Certain ex-
ecutors are required to report the estate tax value of prop-
erty passing from a decedent to the IRS and to the
recipient of the property (beneficiary). See Consistent Ba-
sis Reporting Requirement, later, for more information.

Filing status name changed to qualifying surviving
spouse. The filing status qualifying widow(er) is now
called qualifying surviving spouse. The rules for the filing
status have not changed. The same rules that applied to
qualifying widow(er) apply to qualifying surviving spouse.
See Qualifying surviving spouse, later.

Extension of time to elect portability. Effective July 8,
2022, Rev. Proc. 2022-32 provides a simplified method for
certain estates to obtain an extension of time to file a re-
turn on or before the fifth anniversary of the decedent’s
death to elect portability of the deceased spousal unused
exclusion (DSUE) amount. See Filing requirements, later,
for more information.

Photographs of missing children. The Internal Reve-
nue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
1-800-THE-LOST
and
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

calling

Introduction
This publication is designed to help those in charge (per-
sonal representatives) of the property (estate) of an indi-
vidual who has died (decedent). It shows how to complete
and file federal income tax returns and explains their re-
sponsibility to pay any taxes due on behalf of the

decedent. An example of the decedent's final tax return,
Form 1040, U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, and the
estate's income tax return, Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax
Return for Estates and Trusts, are discussed in this publi-
cation.

The publication also explains how much money or
property a taxpayer can give away during their lifetime or
leave to their heirs at their death, before any tax will be
owed. A discussion of Form 709, United States Gift (and
Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return, and Form 706,
United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer)
Tax Return, is included.

Also included in this publication are the following items.

• A checklist of the forms you may need and their due

dates.

• A worksheet to reconcile amounts reported in the de-
cedent's name on information returns including Forms
W-2, Wage and Tax Statement; 1099-INT, Interest In-
come; 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions; etc. The
worksheet will help you correctly determine the in-
come to report on the decedent's final return and on
the return for either the estate or a beneficiary.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and your suggestions for fu-
ture editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through

Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have a
tax question not answered by this publication, or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go
to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

2

Publication 559 (2025)
Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

3

3 Armed Forces' Tax Guide

Form (and Instructions)

SS-4

SS-4 Application for Employer Identification Number

56

56 Notice Concerning Fiduciary Relationship

1040

1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return

1040-SR

1040-SR U.S. Tax Return for Seniors

1041

1041 U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts

706

706 United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping
Transfer) Tax Return

709

709 United States Gift (and Generation-Skipping
Transfer) Tax Return

1310

1310 Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a
Deceased Taxpayer

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this publication
for information about getting publications and forms. Also
near the end of this publication is Table A, a checklist of
forms and their due dates for the executor, administrator,
or personal representative.

Personal Representative

A personal representative of an estate is an executor, ad-
ministrator, or anyone who is in charge of the decedent's
property. Generally, an executor (or executrix) is named in
a decedent's will to administer the estate and distribute
properties as the decedent has directed. An administrator
(or administratrix) is usually appointed by the court if no
will exists, if no executor was named in the will, or if the
named executor can't or won't serve.

In general, an executor and an administrator perform

the same duties and have the same responsibilities.

For estate tax purposes, if there is no executor or ad-
ministrator appointed, qualified, and acting within the Uni-
ted States, the term “executor” includes anyone in actual
or constructive possession of any property of the dece-
dent. It includes, among others, the decedent's agents
and representatives; safe-deposit companies, warehouse
companies, and other custodians of property in this coun-
try; brokers holding securities of the decedent as collat-
eral; and the debtors of the decedent who are in this coun-
try.

Duties

The primary duties of a personal representative are to col-
lect all the decedent's assets, pay the decedent’s cred-
itors, and distribute the remaining assets to the heirs or
other beneficiaries.

The personal representative must also perform the fol-

lowing duties.
• Apply for an employer identification number (EIN) for

the estate.

• File all tax returns, including income, estate, and gift

tax returns, when due.

• Pay the tax determined up to the date of discharge

from duties.

Other duties of the personal representative in federal tax
matters are discussed in other sections of this publication.
If any beneficiary is a nonresident alien, see Pub. 515,
Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign En-
tities, for information on the personal representative's du-
ties as a withholding agent.

Penalty. There is a penalty for failure to file a tax return
when due unless the failure is due to reasonable cause.
Reliance on an agent (attorney, accountant, etc.) isn't rea-
sonable cause for late filing. It is the personal representati-
ve's duty to file the returns for the decedent and the estate
when due.

Identification number. The first action you should take if
you’re the personal representative for the decedent is to
apply for an EIN for the estate. You should apply for this
number as soon as possible because you need to enter it
on returns, statements, and other documents you file con-
cerning the estate. You must also give the identification
number to payers of interest and dividends and other pay-
ers who must file a return concerning the estate.

You can get an EIN by applying online at IRS.gov/EIN.
Generally, if you apply online, you will receive your EIN im-
mediately upon completing the application. You can also
apply using Form SS-4. Generally, if you apply by mail, it
takes about 4 weeks to get your EIN. See IRS.gov/
Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/
Employer-ID-Numbers-EINs for other ways to apply.

Payers of interest and dividends report amounts on
Forms 1099 using the identification number of the person
to whom the account is payable. After a decedent's death,
Forms 1099 must reflect the identification number (EIN, in-
dividual identification number (ITIN), or social security
number (SSN)) of the estate or beneficiary to whom the
amounts are payable. As the personal representative han-
dling the estate, you must furnish this identification num-
ber to the payer. For example, if interest is payable to the
estate, the estate's EIN must be provided to the payer and
used to report the interest on Form 1099-INT. If the inter-
est is payable to a surviving joint owner, the survivor's
identification number, such as an SSN or ITIN, must be
provided to the payer and used to report the interest.

If the estate or a survivor may receive interest or divi-
dends after you inform the payer of the decedent's death,
the payer should give you (or the survivor) a Form W-9,
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certifica-
tion, or a similar substitute form. Complete this form to in-
form the payer of the estate's (or if completed by the survi-
vor, the survivor's) identification number and return it to
the payer.

Publication 559 (2025)

3
be filed if you are claiming a refund and either of the fol-
lowing applies to you.

• You are a surviving spouse filing an original or amen-

ded joint return with the decedent.

• You are a court-appointed or certified personal repre-
sentative filing the decedent’s original return and a
copy of the court certificate showing your appointment
is attached to the return.

Note: If the personal representative is filing a claim for
refund on Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income
Tax Return, or Form 843, Claim for Refund and Request
for Abatement, you must attach a court certificate showing
your appointment to Form 1310, even if you have previ-
ously filed that certificate with the IRS.

Example. E. Green died before filing the tax return.
You were appointed the personal representative for E.
Green's estate, and you file the Form 1040 or 1040-SR
showing a refund due. You don't need Form 1310 to claim
the refund if you attach a copy of the court certificate to
the tax return showing you were appointed the personal
representative.

Tip: If you are a surviving spouse and you receive a tax
refund check in both your name and your deceased spou-
se's name, you can have the check reissued in your name
alone. Return the joint-name check marked “VOID” along
with Form 1310 to your local IRS office or the service cen-
ter where you mailed your return, along with a written re-
quest for reissuance of the refund check. A new check will
be issued in your name and mailed to you.

Death certificate. When filing the decedent's final in-
come tax return, don't attach the death certificate or other
proof of death to the final return. Instead, keep it for your
records and provide it if requested.

Nonresident Alien

If the decedent was a nonresident alien who would have
had to file Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien Income
Tax Return, you must file that form for the decedent's final
tax year. See the Instructions for Form 1040-NR for the fil-
ing requirements, due date, and where to file.

Joint Return

Generally, the personal representative and the surviving
spouse can file a joint return for the decedent and the sur-
viving spouse. However, the surviving spouse alone can
file the joint return if no personal representative has been
appointed before the due date for filing the final joint return
for the year of death. This also applies to the return for the
preceding year if the decedent died after the close of the
preceding tax year and before filing the return for that year.
The income of the decedent that was includible on the de-
cedent’s return for the year up to the date of death (see
Income To Include, later) and the income of the surviving
spouse for the entire year must be included on the final
joint return.

A final joint return with the decedent can't be filed if the
surviving spouse remarried before the end of the year of
the decedent's death. The filing status of the decedent in
this instance is married filing a separate return.

For information about tax benefits to which a surviving
spouse may be entitled, see Tax Benefits for Survivors,
later, under Other Tax Information.

Personal representative may revoke joint return elec-
tion. A court-appointed personal representative may re-
voke an election to file a joint return previously made by
the surviving spouse alone. This is done by filing a sepa-
rate return for the decedent within 1 year from the due
date of the return (including any extensions). The joint re-
turn filed by the surviving spouse will then be regarded as
the separate return of that spouse by excluding the dece-
dent's items and refiguring the tax liability.

Relief from joint liability. In some cases, one spouse
may be relieved of joint liability for tax, interest, and penal-
ties on a joint return for items of the other spouse that
were incorrectly reported on the joint return. If the dece-
dent qualified for this relief while alive, the personal repre-
sentative can pursue an existing request, or file a request,
for relief from joint liability. For information on requesting
this relief, see Pub. 971, Innocent Spouse Relief.

Income To Include

The decedent's income includible on the final return is
generally determined as if the person were still alive ex-
cept that the tax period is usually shorter because it ends
on the date of death. The method of accounting regularly
used by the decedent before death also determines the in-
come includible on the final return. This section explains
how some types of income are reported on the final return.

For more information about accounting methods, see

Pub. 538, Accounting Periods and Methods.

Cash Method

If the decedent accounted for income under the cash
method, only those items actually or constructively re-
ceived before death are included on the final return.

Constructive receipt of income. Interest from coupons
on the decedent's bonds is constructively received by the
decedent if the coupons matured in the decedent's final
tax year but had not been cashed. Include the interest in-
come on the final return.

Generally, a dividend is considered constructively re-
ceived if it was available for use by the decedent without
restriction. If the corporation customarily mailed its divi-
dend checks, the dividend was includible when received.
If the individual died between the time the dividend was
declared and the time it was received in the mail, the de-
cedent didn't constructively receive it before death. Don't
include the dividend on the final return.

6

Publication 559 (2025)