• Grants for motor vehicles for veterans who lost their

sight or the use of their limbs;

• Veterans' insurance proceeds and dividends paid to

veterans or their beneficiaries, including the proceeds
of a veteran's endowment policy paid before death;
• Interest on insurance dividends left on deposit with the

VA;

• Benefits under a dependent-care assistance program;
• The death gratuity paid to a survivor of a member of

the U.S. Armed Forces who died after September 10,
2001; or

• Payments made under the VA's compensated work

therapy program.

Other Payments

You may receive other payments that are related to your
disability. The following payments aren’t taxable.

• Benefit payments from a public welfare fund, such as

payments due to blindness.

• Workers' compensation for an occupational sickness
or injury if paid under a workers' compensation act or
similar law.

• Compensatory (but not punitive) damages for physical

injury or physical sickness.

• Disability benefits under a “no-fault” car insurance pol-
icy for loss of income or earning capacity as a result of
injuries.

• Compensation for permanent loss or loss of use of a
part or function of your body, or for your permanent
disfigurement.

Long-Term Care Insurance

Long-term care insurance contracts are generally treated
as accident and health insurance contracts. Amounts you
receive from them (other than policyholder dividends or
premium refunds) are generally excludable from income
as amounts received for personal injury or sickness. See
Pub. 525.

Accelerated Death Benefits

You can exclude from income accelerated death benefits
you receive on the life of an insured individual if certain re-
quirements are met. Accelerated death benefits are
amounts received under a life insurance contract before
the death of the insured. These benefits also include
amounts received on the sale or assignment of the con-
tract to a viatical settlement provider. This exclusion ap-
plies only if the insured was a terminally ill individual or a
chronically ill individual. See Pub. 525.

Itemized Deductions

If you file Form 1040 or 1040-SR, to lower your taxable in-
come, you can generally claim the standard deduction or
itemize your deductions, such as medical expenses, using
Schedule A (Form 1040). For impairment-related work ex-
penses, use the appropriate business form (1040 Sched-
ules C, E, and F; or Form 2106, Employee Business Ex-
penses).

Medical Expenses

When figuring your deduction for medical expenses, you
can generally include medical and dental expenses you
pay for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents.

Medical expenses are the cost of diagnosis, cure, miti-
gation, treatment, or prevention of disease, and the costs
for treatments affecting any part or function of the body.
They include the costs of equipment, supplies, diagnostic
devices, and transportation for needed medical care and
payments for medical insurance.

You can deduct only the amount of your medical and
dental expenses that is more than 7.5% of your adjusted
gross income shown on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.

The following list highlights some of the medical expen-
ses you can include in figuring your medical expense de-
duction.
• Artificial limbs, contact lenses, eyeglasses, and hear-

ing aids.

• The part of the cost of Braille books and magazines
that is more than the price of regular printed editions.

• Cost and repair of special telephone equipment for

hearing-impaired persons.

• Cost of a wheelchair used mainly for the relief of sick-

ness or disability, and not just to provide transportation
to and from work. The cost of operating and maintain-
ing the wheelchair is also a medical expense.

• Cost and care of a guide dog or other animal aiding a

person with a physical disability.

• Costs for a school that furnishes special education if a
principal reason for using the school is its resources
for relieving a mental or physical disability. This in-
cludes the cost of teaching Braille and lip reading and
the cost of remedial language training to correct a
condition caused by a birth defect.

• Premiums for qualified long-term care insurance, up to

certain amounts.

• Improvements to a home that do not increase its value
if the main purpose is medical care. An example is
constructing entrance or exit ramps.

Tip: Improvements that increase a home's value, if the
main purpose is medical care, may be partly included as a
medical expense. See Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Ex-
penses.

4

Publication 907 (2025)
Distributions for qualified
disability expenses:
$1,600

Total distributions:
$2,400

x

Earnings portion
of the year's
distributions:
$400

=

$266.67, the
nontaxable portion
of the earnings

The taxpayer will include the difference of $133.33

($400 – $266.67) in their gross income for 2025.

The tax on any distribution included in your taxable in-
come is increased by 10%. Figure this tax on Form 5329,
Part II, and file it even if you're not otherwise required to
file a federal income tax return.

Rollovers, program-to-program transfers, and benefi-
ciary changes. If you need to move your ABLE account
to another qualified ABLE program to change the designa-
ted beneficiary of the account, you can accomplish this
through a rollover. If the ABLE program permits, funds can
move from one ABLE account to another through a direct
program-to-program transfer.

Rollover. You don't include in your gross income any
amount distributed to you from your ABLE account if it's
rolled over within 60 days to another ABLE account estab-
lished for you or for an eligible family member and no
other rollover has been made within the previous 12
months. Eligible family member means a sibling only,
whether by blood or by adoption, and includes a brother,
sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister.

Program-to-program transfer. The entire balance of
your ABLE account can be transferred by your ABLE pro-
gram to another ABLE program. You can also have your
ABLE program transfer all or part of the balance in your
account to an eligible family member. If the entire balance
is transferred, your first ABLE account is closed after the
transfer is complete. A program-to-program transfer isn’t a
distribution so you don’t include any of the transferred
amount in your gross income.

Change of designated beneficiary. Your ABLE pro-
gram may permit you to change the beneficiary of your
ABLE account from yourself to one of your siblings if your
sibling is an eligible individual for the tax year in which you
make the change.

Rollover from section 529 tuition account to section
529A ABLE account. Rollovers may be made without
penalty from a section 529 tuition account to a section
529A ABLE account if the beneficiary of the ABLE ac-
count is the designated beneficiary of the tuition account
or is an eligible member of the family. See Notice 2018-58.
The limit on annual contributions to an ABLE account, dis-
cussed earlier in Contribution limitation, applies to these
rollovers.

Information returns for ABLE accounts. You may re-
ceive from your ABLE program the following forms which
you can use if you need to file an income tax return.

Form 1099-QA, Distributions From ABLE Ac-
counts. An ABLE program issues this form to you to re-
port all distributions made from your ABLE account.

Form 5498-QA, ABLE Account Contribution Infor-
mation. An ABLE program issues this form to you annu-
ally to report contributions (including rollovers), FMV of the
account, opening of a new account, certification of a quali-
fied account, and your disability code.

If you have any questions about the amounts on these
forms, you should contact your ABLE program administra-
tor.

How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).

Publication 907 (2025)

9