भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

Most Important Terms and Conditions (MITC)
[Forming part of the Investment Advisory Agreement]

Annexure A

1. The Investment Adviser (IA) shall only accept payments towards its fees for Investment
Advisory Services and is not permitted to accept funds or securities in its account on the
client’s behalf.

2. The IA does not guarantee returns, accuracy, or risk-free investments. All advice is

subject to market risks, and there is no assurance of any returns or profits.

3. Any assured/guaranteed/fixed returns schemes or any other schemes of similar nature
are prohibited by law. No scheme of this nature shall be offered to the client by the IA.

4. Investment advice, only related to securities shall fall under the purview of SEBI. In case
of any services offered by IA related to products/services not under the purview of SEBI,
IA shall make disclosure to the client and take appropriate declaration and undertaking
from the client that such products/services and the services of IA in respect of such
products/services do not come under regulatory purview of SEBI and that no recourse
is available to the client with SEBI for grievances related to such products/services or
services of IA in respect of such products/services.

5. This agreement is for the investment advisory services provided by the IA and IA cannot
execute/carry out any trade (purchase/sell transaction) on behalf of the client without
his/her/its specific and positive consent on every trade. Thus, the client is advised not to
permit IA to execute any trade on his/her/its behalf without explicit consent.

6. The fee charged by IA to the client will be subject to the maximum of amount prescribed
by SEBI/Investment Adviser Administration and Supervisory Body (IAASB) from time to
time (applicable only for Individual and HUF Clients).

Note:
(i) The current fee limit under Fixed Fee mode is Rs 1,51,000/- per annum per family
of client. Under Assets under Advice (AUA) mode, maximum fee limit is 2.5 per cent
of AUA per annum per family of client.

(ii) The IA may change the fee mode at any time with the client’s consent; however, the
maximum fee limit in such cases shall be higher of fee limit under the fixed fee mode
or 2.5 per cent of AUA per annum per family of client.

(iii) The fee limits do not include statutory charges.
(iv) The fee limits apply only for investment advice related to securities under purview of

SEBI.

(v) The fee limits do not apply to a non-individual client / accredited investor.

7. IA may charge fees in advance if agreed by the client. Such advance shall not exceed
the period stipulated by SEBI; presently it is maximum two quarters. In case of pre-
mature termination of the IA services by the client or the IA, the client shall be entitled
to seek refund of proportionate fees only for unexpired period. However, IA is entitled to
retain a maximum breakage fee of not greater than one-quarter fee.

8. Fees to IA may be paid by the client through any of the specified modes like cheque,
online bank transfer, UPI, etc. Cash payment is not allowed. Optionally the client can
make payments through Centralized Fee Collection Mechanism (CeFCoM), managed
by BSE Limited (i.e. currently recognized IAASB).

Page 3 of 4