9. Compliance with requirement of minimum revenue from permitted activities:

9.1.

In terms of clause (j) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9A and regulation 9C of
MB Regulations, the MBs shall generate minimum revenue, as specified by the
Board, from activities provided under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 13A.

9.2. The Board has been empowered to specify the minimum revenue that an MB has
to generate from the permitted activities. It is, accordingly, specified that an MB
shall generate minimum revenue, on a cumulative basis over the three immediately
preceding financial years, as given below:

(i) Category I: at least Rs. 25 crore
(ii) Category II: at least Rs. 5 crore

9.3.

If an MB fails to generate minimum revenue, as given above, its certificate of
registration is liable to be cancelled under summary proceedings under SEBI
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. The first assessment w.r.t. minimum revenue
from permitted activities by MBs, will be carried out with effect from April 01, 2029.

9.4. Board has been empowered to specify circumstances under which the registration
granted to an MB shall not be cancelled in case it is unable to meet the minimum
revenue due to certain circumstance(s). Accordingly, it is specified that SEBI shall,
inter alia, take into account the following circumstances in deciding whether to
cancel the registration of an MB for not meeting minimum revenue criteria, namely:

9.4.1. Natural calamities like flood, earthquake,
9.4.2. Outbreak of pandemic situations like COVID-19 etc.
9.4.3. Global Economic Recession
9.4.4. Geopolitical tensions and war

9.5. MBs are required to submit details of revenue from permitted activities to SEBI
within three months from the end of each financial year, starting from FY 2026-27.

10. Disclosure to be made by Merchant Banker where it is only involved in the

marketing of an issue:

10.1. In terms of regulation 21C of MB Regulations, an MB shall not lead manage any
public issue, where its directors, other key managerial personnel, compliance
officer, employees referred to in clause (b) of Regulation 6, or their relatives,
individually or in aggregate hold more than 0.1% of the paid up share capital or
shares whose nominal value is more than 10,00,000 rupees, whichever is lower,
in the issuer.

Page 6 of 9