b. FPIs that individually, or along with their investor group (in terms of
Regulation 22(3) of the FPI Regulations), hold more than INR 25,000
crore of equity AUM in the Indian markets.

Note:

I. Economic interest means returns from the investments made by

the FPI.

II. Ownership interest means ownership of shares or capital of the
entity or entitlement to derive profits from the activity of the entity.
III. Control shall have the same meaning as mentioned in Regulation

2(f) of the FPI Regulations.

8. However, FPIs having a broad based, pooled structure with widespread
investor base, ownership interest by Government or Government related
investors, etc. may not pose significant systemic risk. Further, certain genuine
circumstances may also prevent some FPIs from adhering to the limits specified
in Para 7 above. Considering the same, FPIs satisfying any of the criteria listed
below shall not be required to make the disclosures as specified in Para 7
above:

a. Government and Government related investors registered as FPIs under

Regulation 5 (a) (i) of the FPI Regulations.

b. Public Retail Funds (‘PRFs’) as defined under Regulation 22(4) of the
FPI Regulations, subject to independent validation of the same by DDPs/
Custodians.

c. Exchange Traded Funds (with less than 50% exposure to India and
India-related equity securities) and Entities
listed on specified
Exchanges of the permissible jurisdictions as may be notified by the
Board from time to time. To start with, the list of permissible jurisdictions
and exchanges as mentioned in Annexure A to SEBI circular
SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2019/146 dated Nov 28, 2019 shall be
considered as permissible exchanges and jurisdictions for this clause.

d. Pooled investment vehicles registered with/ regulated by a Government/
regulatory authority in their home jurisdiction/ country of incorporation/
establishment/ formation, where:

i.

their holding in an Indian corporate group is below 25% of their
overall global AUM at a scheme level, in case of FPIs falling under
Para 7 (a) above; or

Page 3 of 6
ii.

their equity AUM in the Indian markets is below 50% of their overall
global AUM at a scheme level, in case of FPIs falling under Para
7 (b) above;

subject to independent validation of disclosure of such holdings by the
DDPs/ Custodians.

‘Scheme’ for the purpose of this clause shall mean pooled investment
vehicles with structures similar to ‘Scheme’ as defined in SEBI (Mutual
Funds) Regulations, 1996.

e. FPIs that are unable to liquidate their excess investments due to
statutory restrictions (such as lock in restrictions of anchor investors in
IPOs, moratoriums, freeze on accounts or shares due to regulatory
orders etc.), till the time such restrictions exist.

f. Newly registered FPIs, for the first 90 calendar days from the date of

settlement of first trade by the FPIs in equity segment in India.

g. FPIs in the process of winding down their investment and having
intimated to their DDP, their intention to surrender their FPI registration.
Such FPIs shall be required to bring down their holdings to ‘NIL’ within
180 calendar days from the date of their intimation for surrender, failing
which the account of the FPI shall be blocked for purchase as well as
sale, and the FPI shall be liable for regulatory action as stipulated by the
Board.

The modalities for compliance with the above shall be detailed in the
above referred SOP.

9. The constituents of FPI investor group which collectively hold more than INR
25,000 crore of equity AUM in the Indian markets, shall be exempted from
making the additional disclosures if the investor group consists of FPIs that
qualify for exemption in terms of any of the criteria in Para 8 above and the net
equity AUM of the investor group, after deducting the AUM of such exempted
FPIs, falls below INR 25,000 crore.

After making the aforesaid deductions of AUM of such exempted FPIs, in case
the equity AUM of the remaining FPIs of the investor group continues to exceed
INR 25,000 crore, only the non – exempted FPIs of the investor group shall be
liable for making the disclosures in terms of Para 7 and consequent actions, if
any, as stated in the section below.

Page 4 of 6
10. Also, where the entity identified on a look through basis in terms of Para 7
above, falls under any of the sub - categories specified in Para 8 above, further
identification of entities having ownership interest, economic interest, or control
rights of such an entity on look through basis, shall not be required.

D. Timelines:

11. Disclosures specified under Para 7 shall not be required to be made by FPIs in
case their investments are realigned with the prescribed thresholds, within the
below mentioned timelines/ conditions:

a. FPIs holding more than 50% of their Indian Equity AUM in a single Indian
corporate group: 10 trading days from the date on which such FPIs
exceed the threshold. Such FPIs shall not make fresh purchases of the
equity shares of any company belonging to such Indian corporate group,
during the next 30 calendar days from the date on which the FPIs
exceeded the threshold.

b. FPIs, including their investor group, holding more than INR 25,000 crore
of equity AUM in the Indian markets: 90 calendar days from date on
which such FPIs exceed the threshold. Accounts of all FPIs, individually
or belonging to such investor group, shall be blocked for further equity
purchases until the holding is brought below INR 25,000 crore of equity
AUM in the Indian markets.

c. FPIs required to make disclosures specified in Para 7 above as on the
date of applicability of this circular: 90 calendar days from the date of
applicability of this circular.

After realignment, in case the FPI’s holdings exceed the prescribed threshold
on a subsequent date, the timeline for FPI to realign with the limits shall restart
from such subsequent date.

12. FPIs whose investments continue to exceed the prescribed threshold post
expiry of timelines mentioned in Para 11 shall make the disclosures as specified
in Para 7 to their DDPs within 30 trading days from the expiry of such timelines.
Non – disclosures in this regard shall render the registration of the FPI invalid
and the FPI shall not make any further purchases. Further, the FPI shall
liquidate its securities and exit the Indian securities market by surrendering its
FPI registration within 180 calendar days from the day the certificate becomes
invalid.

Page 5 of 6