VIII. In Clause 20(b) of the circular, at the end of the current paragraph, the following
sentence is added: “The Market Participant against whom the investor/client pursues
the online arbitration shall participate in the arbitration process. Accordingly, within 10
days of the initiation of the online arbitration by the investor/client, the Market
Participant shall make the deposit of 100% of the admissible claim value with the
relevant MII and make the payment of the fees as applicable for online arbitration.
Non-adherence of the foregoing by the Market Participant may result in action against
the Market Participant by MIIs and/or the Board.”

IX. In Clause 20(c) of the circular, the first sentence is substituted as follows: “In case the
Market Participant wishes to pursue online arbitration (which will be administered by
the ODR Institution which facilitated the conduct of conciliation), it shall intimate
the ODR Institution within 10 days of the conclusion of the conciliation process of its
intent to do so and within further 5 days of this intimation, shall deposit 100% of the
admissible claim value with the relevant MII and make the payment of fees as
applicable for online arbitration for initiating the online arbitration”.

X. In Clause 28(c) of the circular, the slab ‘Above Rs. 50 lakh’, stands modified as follows:

Arbitrator’s Fee
ODR Institution’s Fees, in addition to the
arbitrator’s fees (to be collected by the
ODR institution)
Applicable GST, Stamp Duty, etc. on
actual outgoings

Above Rs. 50 lakh – Rs. 1 crore

Rs. 1,20,000/-**
Rs. 15,000/-

Further, for claims of Rs. 1 crore and above, an ad valorem fees @ 1% of the claim
value or Rs.1,20,000/-, whichever is more, towards Arbitrator’s Fees** (to be collected
by the ODR institution and paid to the arbitrator) and fees @ Rs 35,000/- towards
ODR Institution’s Fees, in addition to the arbitrator’s fees (to be collected by the ODR
institution), together with Applicable GST, Stamp Duty, etc. on actual outgoings, shall
be applicable.

XI. In Clause 28 (c) of the circular, at the end of the first paragraph appearing after the
table, the following sentence is added: “The investor may choose to initiate arbitration
for a higher claim value subject to payment of applicable fees and charges”.

XII. In Clause 28 (c) of the circular under ‘Late Fee’, after the last line, the following is
added: “……The concerned ODR Institution may collect this fee on behalf of the MII
as per mutually agreed terms between them.”

XIII. Schedule A of the circular shall also include the following:

1 A. Banker to an Issue and Self-Certified Syndicate Banks^2

2 including for any claims / complaints / disputes pertaining to compensation to investors for grievance
emanating from application to Public Issues using UPI payment with ASBA.

Page 3 of 4