3. Categories of passive schemes to be covered under MF Lite framework

i. Regulation 79(1)(b) of Chapter XI of the MF Regulation defines “MF Lite” as a

mutual fund that is having only such index funds, exchange traded funds, fund

of funds or other mutual fund schemes as may be specified by the Board from

time to time.

ii. As per Regulation 79(1)(d) of Chapter XI of the MF Regulation, MF Lite scheme

is any scheme launched by an MF Lite or any other eligible passive scheme as

may be specified by the Board from time to time.

iii. In this regard, the passive schemes based on the following underlying indices

shall be covered under phase- 1 of implementation of the MF Lite Framework.

a. Passive funds based on only domestic equity passive indices (broad

indices tracked by passive funds or act as primary benchmark for actively

managed funds), with collective AUM of INR 5,000 Cr. and above as on

December 31 of each Financial Year. AMFI, in consultation with SEBI,

shall prescribe the list of such domestic equity indices on a periodic basis.

b. (i) All G-Sec/ T-bills/ SDL based domestic target maturity debt passive

funds and (ii) domestic constant duration passive funds based on such

debt indices with collective AUM, which exceeds a threshold of INR 5,000

Cr. and above as on December 31 of each Financial Year. AMFI, in

consultation with SEBI, shall prescribe the list of such domestic debt

indices on a periodic basis.

c. All Gold ETFs, Silver ETFs and FoFs based on only Gold or Silver ETFs.

d. Overseas ETFs and FoFs having single underlying overseas passive

fund, wherein the underlying overseas benchmarks are as permitted

under clause 4 of this circular.

e. All FoFs investing only in single domestic/ overseas index, wherein the

reference benchmarks of underlying passive funds are as permitted under

clause 3 (in case of domestic underlying indices) and clause 4 (in case of

overseas underlying indices) of this circular.

f. All FoFs investing in more than one index shall not be covered under the

MF Lite framework under the phase 1 of implementation.

Page 2 of 19
CCO may also act as the CRO of the AMC, subject to his/her eligibility and

experience in risk management.

B. Pooled Investment Vehicle as sponsor of Mutual Funds

i. Second proviso to Regulation 81 of Chapter XI of the MF Regulations pro-

vides for a private equity fund or a pooled investment vehicle or a pooled in-

vestment fund to sponsor an MF Lite, subject to conditions as may be speci-

fied by SEBI from time to time.

ii. In this regard, the following has been decided.

a. Among the pooled investment vehicles, only the private equity funds

(PEs) can sponsor an MF Lite.

b. Such PEs shall comply with clauses (i) to (vi) of the first proviso to Regu-

lation 81 of Chapter XI of the MF Regulations.

c. For any PE to qualify as a MF Lite sponsor, the following criteria shall be

applicable;

I. The applicant PE (scheme/ fund) is itself a body corporate or, a body

corporate set up by a PE. The applicant body corporate may be set

up in India or abroad.

II. The applicant PE or its manager have a minimum of five years of

experience in the capacity of fund/investment manager and an expe-

rience of investing in the financial sector, where it should have man-

aged committed and drawn-down capital of not less than INR 2,500

Cr. as on the date of its application made to SEBI.

d. The following additional safeguards shall also be applicable for PEs act-

ing as MF Lite sponsor.

I. There shall be no off-market transactions between the schemes of

the MF Lite and

a) Sponsor PE; or

b) Schemes/ Funds managed by the manager of the sponsor PE;

or

Page 4 of 19