भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

Annexure A

Most Important Terms and Conditions (MITC)

[Forming part of the Terms and Conditions for providing research services]

1. These terms and conditions, and consent thereon are for the research services provided
by the Research Analyst (RA) and RA cannot execute/carry out any trade (purchase/sell
transaction) on behalf of, the client. Thus, the clients are advised not to permit RA to
execute any trade on their behalf.

2. The fee charged by RA to the client will be subject to the maximum of amount prescribed
by SEBI/ Research Analyst Administration and Supervisory Body (RAASB) from time to
time (applicable only for Individual and HUF Clients).
Note:
2.1. The current fee limit is Rs 1,51,000/- per annum per family of client for all research

services of the RA.

2.2. The fee limit does not include statutory charges.
2.3. The fee limits do not apply to a non-individual client / accredited investor.

3. RA may charge fees in advance if agreed by the client. Such advance shall not exceed
the period stipulated by SEBI; presently it is one quarter. In case of pre-mature termination
of the RA services by either the client or the RA, the client shall be entitled to seek refund
of proportionate fees only for unexpired period.

4. Fees to RA may be paid by the client through any of the specified modes like cheque,
online bank transfer, UPI, etc. Cash payment is not allowed. Optionally the client can make
payments through Centralized Fee Collection Mechanism (CeFCoM) managed by BSE
Limited (i.e. currently recognized RAASB).

5. The RA is required to abide by the applicable regulations/ circulars/ directions specified by
SEBI and RAASB from time to time in relation to disclosure and mitigation of any actual or
potential conflict of interest. The RA will endeavor to promptly inform the client of any
conflict of interest that may affect the services being rendered to the client.

6. Any assured/guaranteed/fixed returns schemes or any other schemes of similar nature are

prohibited by law. No scheme of this nature shall be offered to the client by the RA.

7. The RA cannot guarantee returns, profits, accuracy, or risk-free investments from the use
of the RA’s research services. All opinions, projections, estimates of the RA are based on
the analysis of available data under certain assumptions as of
the date of
preparation/publication of research report.

8. Any investment made based on recommendations in research reports are subject to
market risks, and recommendations do not provide any assurance of returns. There is no
recourse to claim any losses incurred on the investments made based on the
recommendations in the research report. Any reliance placed on the research report
provided by the RA shall be as per the client’s own judgement and assessment of the
conclusions contained in the research report.

9. The SEBI registration, Enlistment with RAASB, and NISM certification do not guarantee

the performance of the RA or assure any returns to the client.

Page 3 of 4