4. In this context, taking into account feedback received from the various

stakeholders, it is specified that a Benchmark or Index (including index of

indices) based on listed securities shall be considered as ‘Significant Indices’,

if the daily average cumulative Asset Under Management (AUM) tracking the

Benchmark or Index across schemes of Mutual Fund(s) exceeds ₹20,000 Crore

for each of the past six months, ending on 30th June and 31st December each

year.

5. Further, an Index specified by the Board in the list of ‘Significant Indices’ shall

continue to remain in the list of ‘Significant Indices’ unless the value of

cumulative AUM tracking or benchmarking such Index does not meet the

specified threshold for a continuous period of three years (i.e., six consecutive

half-yearly reviews).

6. Accordingly, the list of ‘Significant Indices’ is specified in terms of Regulation

2(1)(u) of IP Regulations, based on cumulative AUM of schemes of Mutual

Funds tracking the Benchmark or Index for the period from July 01, 2025 to

December 31, 2025, is placed at Annexure-A.

7. Index Providers providing any of the ‘Significant Indices’ listed in Annexure-A

shall submit an application for registration as an Index Provider to SEBI, in

accordance with Regulation 4 of the IP Regulations, within a period of six

months from the date of issuance of this circular. This requirement shall not

apply to the Index Providers, if all the ‘Significant Indices’ provided by them are:

a. Indices notified by RBI as ‘Significant Benchmarks’ under relevant

directions issued by RBI under Section 45W of the RBI Act, 1934; or

b. Indices classified by RBI as ‘Authorized Benchmarks’ under relevant

directions issued by RBI under Section 45W of the RBI Act, 1934

8. An Index Provider providing ‘Significant Indices’ as on the date of this circular,

may continue to carry on its Index Provider activity, provided it submit an

application for registration as an Index Provider to SEBI within a period of six

months from the date of this circular.

Page 2 of 5