भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

No. of clients

Up to 150 clients

151 to 300 clients

301 to 1,000 clients

1,001 and above clients

Deposit

₹ 1 lakh

₹ 2 lakh

₹ 5 lakhs

₹ 10 lakhs

b. The deposit shall be maintained with a scheduled bank marked as lien in favor

of Investment Adviser Administration and Supervisory body (IAASB), in the

manner and form as may be specified by IAASB.

c. The deposit amount may be revised for any change in applicable amount of

deposit, based on the maximum number of clients on any day in the previous

financial year, latest by 30th April of the subsequent financial year.

d. The deposit requirements shall be reviewed by SEBI from time to time.

e. The existing IAs shall ensure compliance with the deposit requirement latest by

June 30, 2025. For the new applicants seeking registration as IA, the deposit

requirement shall become effective immediately from the date of this circular.

ii. Registration both as Investment Adviser and Research analyst:

In terms of the proviso to Regulation 9 of the IA Regulations, an individual or

partnership firm registered as a research analyst may be granted certificate of

registration as an investment adviser, subject to such terms and conditions as the

SEBI may deem fit and appropriate. Accordingly, these terms and conditions are

as under:

a. A research analyst, who is an Individual or partner-ship firm, registered under

the SEBI (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014 (RA Regulations), may be

considered eligible for grant of certificate of registration as IA under the IA

Regulations provided that it shall comply with the rules/regulations/reporting

requirements under each of these regulations viz. IA Regulations and RA

Regulations separately.

Page 2 of 12
भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

no recourse is available to them with SEBI for their grievances related to such

products/services or services of IA in respect of such products/services. IAs

shall make the aforesaid disclosure and obtain appropriate declaration and

undertaking while on-boarding new client. For existing clients, IAs shall ensure

compliance with these requirements latest by April 30, 2025.

vii. Use of Artificial Intelligence (‘AI’) tools in IA services

a. In terms of Regulation 15(14) of the IA Regulations, an investment adviser who

uses Artificial Intelligence tools, irrespective of the scale and scenario of

adoption of such tools, for servicing its clients shall be solely responsible for the

security, confidentiality, integrity of the client data, use of any other information

or data to arrive at investment advice, investment advice based on output of

Artificial Intelligence tools and compliance with any law for the time being in

force. Further, in terms of Regulation 18(9) of the IA Regulations, an investment

adviser shall disclose to the client the extent of use of Artificial Intelligence tools

in providing investment advice.

b. Investment Adviser shall provide the disclosure of the extent of use of Artificial

Intelligence tools by them in providing investment advice to their clients at the

time of entering into the agreement and make such additional disclosure

whenever required.

c. For the existing clients, investment advisers shall comply with the requirements

under this clause latest by April 30, 2025.

viii. Fees and flexibility in change of modes of charging fee to clients

a. Regulation 15A of the IA Regulations provide that IAs shall be entitled to

charge fees from a client in the manner as specified by SEBI. In terms of the

fee related provisions, IAs can charge fees under two modes, namely, (i)

Assets under Advice (‘AUA’) mode, which is subject to a limit of 2.5 per cent of

AUA per annum per family of client across all services offered by IA, and (ii)

Fixed fee mode, which is subject to a specified fee limit (earlier limit ₹1,25,000)

per annum per family of client across all services offered by IA.

Page 7 of 12
भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

b. The maximum fee that may be charged by the IA under the fixed fee mode

now stands revised and shall not exceed ₹1,51,000 per annum per family of

client. The fee limit shall be revised and announced by IAASB once in three

years based on the Cost Inflation Index (CII) after due consultation with SEBI.

c.

In terms of the earlier provisions, IA could charge fees from a client under any

one mode, i.e., Assets under Advice (AUA) mode or fixed fee mode on an

annual basis. Change of mode, if any, can be effected only after twelve

months of on-boarding/last change of mode.

In order to provide more flexibility in charging of fees, IAs have now been

allowed to change the fee mode for a client at any time, without restriction on

the minimum period between two fee mode changes. The maximum fee that

can be charged by the IA shall, however, not exceed the higher of fee limit

under the fixed fee mode or 2.5 per cent of AUA per annum per family of

client.

d. The fee limits do not include statutory charges.

e. The provisions related to limits on fee chargeable by IAs shall only apply to

their individual and Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) clients. These shall not be

applicable in case of non-individual clients and accredited investors and in

such cases, the limits and modes of fees payable to the IA shall be governed

through bilaterally negotiated contractual terms.

f. In terms of revised scope of the ‘investment advice’ under Regulation 2(1)(l) of

the IA Regulations, Investment advice related to securities under purview of

SEBI shall only fall under the purview of IA Regulations. As provided under

Regulation 2(1) (ac) of IA Regulations, for the purpose of charging fee under

AUA mode, AUA shall mean the aggregate net asset value of securities under

the purview of SEBI. Accordingly, it is clarified that the limits on fee

chargeable to clients by IAs shall be applicable only in respect of investment

advice related to securities under purview of SEBI.

g. The fee limit and mode of fees payable for the existing Individual/HUF clients

shall remain unchanged till the expiry of the current agreement, or up to June

Page 8 of 12