may process the request in such cases and issue a new FPI registration

certificate.

Provided the requirement of separate dedicated registration shall not

apply

for

issuance of ODIs with Government securities as

reference/underlying.

ii. A Foreign Portfolio Investor shall not issue ODIs with derivatives as

reference/underlying.

iii. A Foreign Portfolio Investor shall not hedge their ODIs with derivative

positions on Stock Exchanges in India. Accordingly, ODIs shall only have

securities (other than derivatives) as underlying and shall be fully hedged

with the same securities on a one-to-one basis, throughout the tenure of

the ODI.”

2.2. The following Para shall be inserted after Para 3 of Part D:

“4. Mandating additional disclosures by ODI subscribers that fulfil certain

objective criteria

i. Granular details of all entities holding any ownership, economic interest,

or exercising control in the ODI subscriber, on a full look through basis, up

to the level of all natural persons, without any threshold, shall be collected

by ODI issuing FPI from its ODI subscribers, that fulfil any of the criteria

mentioned below

in

the specified

format, and submitted

to

the

Depositories:

a) ODI subscriber having more than 50% of its equity ODI positions

through the ODI issuing FPI in ODIs referenced to securities of a

single Indian corporate group;

b) ODI subscriber having equity positions worth more than INR 25,000

crore in the Indian markets. For the purpose of this clause, equity

positions shall include:

I. Equity ODI positions taken by the ODI subscriber through one or

more ODI issuing FPIs.

II. Equity ODI positions taken by ODI subscribers (through one or

more ODI issuing FPIs) having common ownership, directly or

Page 2 of 11
Exchanges of the permissible jurisdictions as may be notified by the

Board from time to time. To start with, the list of permissible

jurisdictions and exchanges as mentioned in Annexure A to SEBI

circular SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2019/146 dated Nov 28, 2019

shall be considered as permissible exchanges and jurisdictions for this

clause.

d) Pooled

investment vehicles

registered with/

regulated by a

Government/ regulatory authority in their home jurisdiction/ country of

incorporation/ establishment/ formation, where:

I. their positions in equity ODIs referenced to securities of a single

Indian corporate group is below 25% of their overall global AUM at

a scheme level, in case of ODI subscribers meeting the criteria

under Para (i)(a) above; or

II. their equity positions in the Indian markets is below 50% of their

overall global AUM at a scheme level, in case of ODI subscribers

meeting the criteria under Para (i)(b) above;

subject to independent validation of disclosure of such holdings by the

ODI issuing FPIs.

‘Scheme’ for the purpose of this clause shall mean pooled investment

vehicles with structures similar to ‘Scheme’ as defined in SEBI (Mutual

Funds) Regulations, 1996.

e) ODI subscribers that are unable to liquidate their excess ODI positions

due to statutory restrictions (such as freeze on accounts or positions

due to regulatory orders etc.), till the time such restrictions exist.

f) University Funds and University related Endowments, registered or

eligible to be registered as Category I FPI, subject to them fulfilling the

following additional conditions:

I. Indian equity ODI positions being less than 25% of global AUM

II. Global AUM being more than INR 10,000 crore equivalent

III. Appropriate return/filing to the respective tax authorities in their

home jurisdiction to evidence the nature of a non-profit organisation

exempt from tax.

iv. ODI subscribers shall be exempted from making the additional disclosures

if any of the entities referred in Para (i)(b) above qualifies for exemption

Page 4 of 11
and the net equity positions of remaining entities referred in Para (i)(b),

after deducting the positions of such exempted entities, falls below INR

25,000 crore. Post deduction, if the equity positions of the entities referred

in Para (i)(b) above continues to exceed INR 25,000 crore, only the non-

exempted ODI subscribers shall be liable for making the disclosures in

terms of Para (i) and consequent actions, if any, as stated in the

subsequent paragraphs.

v. Where the entity identified on a look through basis in terms of Para (i)

above, satisfies any of the criteria listed in Para (iii) above, further

identification of entities having ownership interest, economic interest, or

control rights of such an entity on look through basis, shall not be required.

vi.

In addition to the criteria listed under Para (iii) above, ODI subscriber

having more than 50% of its equity ODI positions in ODIs referenced to

securities of a single Indian corporate group shall not be required to make

the additional disclosures as specified in Para (i) above, subject to

compliance with all of the following conditions:

a) The apex company of such corporate group has no identified

promoter. For this purpose, the list of corporate groups based on the

corporate repository published by the Stock Exchanges and their

respective apex companies having no identified promoters has been

made public by Depositories.

b) The ODI subscriber does not have more than 50% of its equity ODI

positions in ODIs referenced to securities of a single Indian corporate

group, after disregarding its positions in ODIs referenced to securities

of the apex company (with no identified promoter).

c) The composite positions of all such ODI subscribers (that meet the

50% concentration criteria excluding ODI subscribers which are either

exempted or have disclosed) and all FPIs that meet the 50%

concentration criteria in that corporate group, excluding FPIs which

are either exempted or have disclosed, in the apex company is less

than 3% of the total equity share capital of the apex company.

Page 5 of 11
Note: ODI positions of ODI subscribers and holdings of ODI issuing

FPIs corresponding to the same underlying/reference shares may be

counted only once so as to avoid double counting.

vii. ODI issuing FPIs and Depositories shall track the utilisation of this 3% limit

for apex companies, without an identified promoter, at the end of each

day. When the 3% limit is met or breached, Depositories shall make this

information public before start of trading on the next day.

viii.

Thereafter, for any prospective positions in equity ODI referenced to

securities of the apex company by ODI subscribers, that meet the 50%

concentration criteria in the corporate group, the ODI subscribers shall be

required to either realign their positions below the 50% threshold within 10

trading days or make additional disclosures prescribed above.

Provided no such requirement, to realign or make disclosure, shall be

applicable unless the 3% cumulative limit for the apex company continues

to be met through the said 10 trading days.

ix. Disclosures specified under Para (i) shall not be required in case ODI

subscribers realign their positions with the prescribed thresholds, within

the below mentioned timelines/ conditions:

a) ODI subscribers meeting criteria specified at Para (i) (a): 10 trading

days from the date of breach of specified threshold. Such ODI

subscribers shall not be permitted to take fresh positions in equity

ODIs referenced to securities of any company belonging to such

Indian corporate group, during the next 30 calendar days from the date

on which the ODI subscriber exceeded the threshold. A list of such

ODI subscribers along with Indian corporate group shall be made

public by the Depositories and ODI issuing FPIs shall ensure

compliance with the same.

b) ODI subscribers meeting criteria specified at Para (i) (b): 90 calendar

days from the date of breach of specified threshold. Such ODI

subscribers shall not be permitted to take fresh positions in equity

ODIs until the equity positions are brought below INR 25,000 crore in

Page 6 of 11