7.

Nature of expenses

Investment management and advisory fees.
Custodian fee.

(i)
(ii)
(iii) Registrar and transfer agent fee.
(iv) Brokerage and transaction cost.

A brief explanation shall be given to assist the investor in understanding the
various costs and expenses that an investor may have to bear directly or
indirectly. Additionally, appropriate cross-references may be given to the
relevant sections of the offer document for more complete description in this
regard.

8.

Taxation

A. General

The following information is based on the tax laws in force in India as of the date of this Disclosure
Document and reflects the Portfolio Manager’s understanding of applicable provisions. The tax
implications for each Client may vary significantly based on residential status and individual
circumstances. As the information provided is generic in nature, Clients are advised to seek
guidance from their own tax advisors or consultants regarding the tax treatment of their income,
losses, and expenses related to investments in the portfolio management services. The Client is
responsible for meeting advance tax obligations as per applicable laws.

B.

Tax deducted at source

In the case of resident clients, the income arising by way of dividend, interest on securities, income
from units of mutual fund, etc. from investments made in India are subject to the provisions of tax
deduction at source (TDS). Residents without Permanent Account Number (PAN) are subjected
to a higher rate of TDS.

In the case of non-residents, any income received or accrues or arises; or deemed to be received
or accrue or arise to him in India is subject to the provisions of tax deduction at source under the
IT Act. The authorized dealer is obliged and responsible to make sure that all such relevant
compliances are made while making any payment or remittances from India to such non-residents.
Also, if any tax is required to be withheld on account of any future legislation, the Portfolio
Manager shall be obliged to act in accordance with the regulatory requirements in this regard.
Non-residents without PAN or tax residency certificate (TRC) of the country of his residence are
currently subjected to a higher rate of TDS.

The Finance Act, 2021 introduced a special provision to levy higher rate for TDS for the residents
who are not filing income-tax return in time for previous two years and aggregate of TDS is INR
50,000 or more in each of these two previous years. This provision of higher TDS is not applicable
to a non-resident who does not have a permanent establishment in India and to a resident who is
not required to furnish the return of income.

C. Long term capital gains

Where investment under portfolio management services is treated as investment, the gain or loss
from transfer of Securities shall be taxed as capital gains under section 45 of the IT Act.

14