भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

However, they shall hold NISM certifications and comply with other conditions

specified under Regulation 7(3) of the RA Regulations.

ii. Deposit requirement:

a. As per Regulation 8 of the RA Regulations, a research analyst shall maintain a

deposit of such sum, as specified by the SEBI from time to time. The deposit

requirements shall be based on the maximum number of clients of RA on any

day of the previous financial year, as under:

No. of clients

Up to 150 clients

151 to 300 clients

301 to 1,000 clients

1,001 and above clients

Deposit

₹ 1 lakh

₹ 2 lakh

₹ 5 lakhs

₹ 10 lakhs

b. The deposit shall be maintained with a scheduled bank marked as lien in favor of

Research Analyst Administration and Supervisory body (RAASB), in the manner

and form as may be specified by RAASB.

c. The deposit amount may be revised for any change in applicable amount of

deposit, based on the maximum number of clients in the previous financial year,

latest by 30^th April of the subsequent financial year.

d. The deposit requirements shall be reviewed by SEBI from time to time.

e. The existing RAs shall ensure compliance with the deposit requirement latest by

April 30, 2025. For the new applicants seeking registration as RA, the deposit

requirement shall become effective immediately from the date of this circular.

iii. Registration both as Investment Adviser and Research analyst:

In terms of the proviso to Regulation 9 of the RA Regulations, an individual or

partnership firm registered as an investment adviser may be granted certificate of

registration as a research analyst, subject to such terms and conditions as the

Page 2 of 21
भारतीय (cid:366)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:330)
Securities and Exchange Board of India

ix. Fees chargeable to clients by RAs:

Regulation 15A of RA Regulations provide that RA shall be entitled to charge fees

for providing research services from client including an accredited investor in the

manner as specified by SEBI. Accordingly, -

a. RAs may charge fees, subject to ceiling as may be specified by SEBI and shall

ensure that fee charged to client is fair and reasonable.

b. RAs shall charge a maximum of ₹1,51,000 per annum per family in case of

their clients who are individuals and Hindu Undivided Family(HUF). The fee

limit shall be revised and announced by RAASB once in three years based on

the Cost Inflation Index (CII) after due consultation with SEBI.

c. The fee limit does not include statutory charges.

d. The provisions related to limit on fee chargeable by RAs shall only apply to

individual and HUF clients and shall not be applicable in case of non-individual

clients and accredited investors, and in case of institutional investors seeking

recommendation of proxy adviser.

e. The limits of fees payable to the RA by non-individual clients and accredited

investors, and to the proxy adviser by their institutional investors shall be

governed through bilaterally negotiated contractual terms.

f. If agreed by the client, RA may charge fees in advance. However, such

advance shall not exceed fees for more than one quarter.

g.

In the event of pre-mature termination of RA services in terms of the agreed

terms and conditions, the client shall be refunded proportionate fees for

unexpired period. RA shall not charge any breakage fee.

h. The terms and conditions to be disclosed by RA to the client shall also include

fee limits, agreed fees for research services and guidance on the optional

‘Centralised Fee Collection Mechanism for IA and RA’ (CeFCoM).

Page 8 of 21