2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION

• Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients and based on body surface area (BSA) category for pediatric patients. (2.1)
• Titrate by 0.8 g per meal in two-week intervals for adult patients as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. (2.1)
• Titrate based on BSA category for pediatric patients in two-week intervals for 6 weeks and then every 4 weeks as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. (2.1)

2.1 General Dosing Information

Starting Dose for Adult Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder. The recommended starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 to 1.6 g taken orally with meals based on serum phosphorus level. Table 1 provides recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate tablets for adult patients not taking a phosphate binder.

Table 1: Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder

Serum Phosphorus
Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets
>5.5 and <7.5 mg/dL
0.8 g three times daily with meals
≥7.5 mg/dL
1.6 g three times daily with meals

Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate tablets dose by 0.8 g three times per day with meals at two-week intervals as necessary to achieve target serum phosphorus levels. Based on clinical studies, the average prescribed adult daily dose of sevelamer carbonate is approximately 7.2 g per day. The highest daily adult dose of sevelamer carbonate studied was 14 grams in CKD patients on dialysis.

Starting Dose for Pediatric Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patient’s body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2.

Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient’s Body Surface Area (m^2)

BSA (m^2)
Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack
Titration Increases/Decreases
Per Dose
≥0.75 to <1.2
0.8 g
Titrate by 0.4 g
≥1.2
1.6 g
Titrate by 0.8 g

Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate tablets dose as needed to achieve target levels at two-week intervals based on BSA category, as shown in Table 2.

Switching from Sevelamer Hydrochloride Tablets. For adult patients switching from sevelamer hydrochloride tablets to sevelamer carbonate tablets or powder, use the same dose in grams.

Switching between Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets and Powder. Use the same dose in grams.

Switching from Calcium Acetate. Table 3 gives recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate tablets based on a patient’s current calcium acetate dose.

Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets

Calcium Acetate 667 mg
(Tablets per meal)
Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets
1 tablet
0.8 g
2 tablets
1.6 g
3 tablets
2.4 g

3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS

Tablets: 800 mg white to off white, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablets imprinted with “L 28” on one side and plain on other side.

• Tablets: 800 mg (3)