2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

• Begin varenicline tablets dosing one week before the date set by the patient to stop smoking. Alternatively, the patient can begin varenicline tablets dosing and then quit smoking between days 8 and 35 of treatment. ( 2.1)
• Starting Week: 0.5 mg once daily on days 1 to 3 and 0.5 mg twice daily on days 4 to 7. ( 2.1)
• Continuing Weeks: 1 mg twice daily for a total of 12 weeks. ( 2.1)
• An additional 12 weeks of treatment is recommended for successful quitters to increase likelihood of long-term abstinence. ( 2.1)
• Consider a gradual approach to quitting smoking with varenicline tablets for patients who are sure that they are not able or willing to quit abruptly. Patients should begin varenicline tablets dosing and reduce smoking by 50% from baseline within the first four weeks, by an additional 50% in the next four weeks, and continue reducing with the goal of reaching complete abstinence by 12 weeks. Continue treatment for an additional 12 weeks, for a total of 24 weeks. ( 2.1)
• Severe Renal Impairment (estimated creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min): Begin with 0.5 mg once daily and titrate to 0.5 mg twice daily. For patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis, a maximum of 0.5 mg daily may be given if tolerated. ( 2.2)
• Consider dose reduction for patients who cannot tolerate adverse effects. ( 2.1)
• Another attempt at treatment is recommended for those who fail to stop smoking or relapse when factors contributing to the failed attempt have been addressed. ( 2.1)
• Provide patients with appropriate educational materials and counseling to support the quit attempt. ( 2.1)

2.1 Usual Dosage for Adults

Smoking cessation therapies are more likely to succeed for patients who are motivated to stop smoking and who are provided additional advice and support. Provide patients with appropriate educational materials and counseling to support the quit attempt.

The patient should set a date to stop smoking. Begin varenicline tablets dosing one week before this date. Alternatively, the patient can begin varenicline tablets dosing and then quit smoking between days 8 and 35 of treatment.

Varenicline tablets should be taken orally after eating and with a full glass of water.

The recommended dose of varenicline tablets is 1 mg twice daily following a 1-week titration as follows:

Days 1 to 3:	0.5 mg once daily
Days 4 to 7:	0.5 mg twice daily
Day 8 – end of treatment:	1 mg twice daily

Patients should be treated with varenicline tablets for 12 weeks. For patients who have successfully stopped smoking at the end of 12 weeks, an additional course of 12 weeks treatment with varenicline tablets are recommended to further increase the likelihood of long-term abstinence.

For patients who are sure that they are not able or willing to quit abruptly, consider a gradual approach to quitting smoking with varenicline tablets. Patients should begin varenicline tablets dosing and reduce smoking by 50% from baseline within the first four weeks, by an additional 50% in the next four weeks, and continue reducing with the goal of reaching complete abstinence by 12 weeks. Continue varenicline tablets treatment for an additional 12 weeks, for a total of 24 weeks of treatment. Encourage patients to attempt quitting sooner if they feel ready [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5)].

Patients who are motivated to quit, and who did not succeed in stopping smoking during prior varenicline tablets therapy for reasons other than intolerability due to adverse events or who relapsed after treatment, should be encouraged to make another attempt with varenicline tablets once factors contributing to the failed attempt have been identified and addressed.

Consider a temporary or permanent dose reduction in patients who cannot tolerate the adverse effects of varenicline tablets.

2.2 Dosage in Special Populations

Patients with Impaired Renal Function
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. For patients with severe renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance less than 30 mL per min), the recommended starting dose of varenicline tablets is 0.5 mg once daily. The dose may then be titrated as needed to a maximum dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. For patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis, a maximum dose of 0.5 mg once daily may be administered if tolerated [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

Elderly and Patients with Impaired Hepatic Function
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Varenicline tablets 0.5 mg:Pink, capsular, biconvex, film coated tablets debossed with "H" on one side and "V23" on the other side.

Varenicline tablets 1 mg:Yellow, capsular, biconvex, film coated tablets debossed with "H" on one side and "V24" on the other side.

Tablets: 0.5 mg and 1 mg (3)