2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Take orally once daily with or without food at the same time each day. ( 2.1)
For patients requiring a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pitavastatin tablets 4 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. ( 2.1)
Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiation of pitavastatin tablets and adjust the dosage if necessary. ( 2.1)
Recommended dosage is 2 mg to 4 mg once daily. Maximum recommended dosage is 4 mg once daily ( 2.2)
Recommended starting dosage for patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 1 mg once daily. Maximum recommended dosage is 2 mg once daily. ( 2.3)
See full prescribing information for pitavastatin tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.4)

2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information

Take pitavastatin tablets orally once daily with or without food at the same time each day.
For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pitavastatin tablets 4 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment.
Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pitavastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary.

2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 8 Years and Older

The recommended dosage range of pitavastatin tablets is 2 mg to 4 mg daily.
The maximum recommended dosage is pitavastatin tablets 4 mg once daily.

2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment

The recommended starting dosage for patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m ^2and 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m ^2, respectively) and patients with end-stage renal disease receiving hemodialysis is pitavastatin tablets 1 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dose for these patients is pitavastatin tablets 2 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] .
There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild renal impairment.

2.4 Pitavastatin Tablets Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions

In patients taking erythromycin, do not exceed pitavastatin tablets 1 mg once daily [see Drug Interactions (7)] .
In patients taking rifampin, do not exceed pitavastatin tablets 2 mg once daily [see Drug Interactions (7)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Pitavastatin tablets are supplied as:

1 mg: Round, white to off-white, film-coated tablet, debossed with "P1" on one side.

2 mg: Round, white to off-white, film-coated tablet, debossed with "P2" on one side.

4 mg: Round, white to off-white, film-coated tablet, debossed with "P4" on one side.

Tablets: 1 mg, 2 mg, and 4 mg ( 3)