2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION

Use the lowest effective dose for the patient.

· Use the lowest dose effective for the patient ( 2)

· Recommended initial dose is 1 mg, immediately before bedtime, with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated, to a maximum of 3 mg ( 2.1)

· Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.2)

· Patients with severe hepatic impairment, or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.3)

· Do not take with or immediately after a meal ( 2.5)

2.1 Dosage in Adults

The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. Dosing can be raised to 2 mg or 3 mg if clinically indicated. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6) ].

2.2 Geriatric or Debilitated Patients

The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg in elderly or debilitated patients.

2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors

In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7) ].

2.4 Use with CNS Depressants

Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)].

2.5 Administration with Food

Taking eszopiclone tablets with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of eszopiclone tablets on sleep latency [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS

Eszopiclone tablets, USP are available in 1 mg, 2 mg and 3 mg strengths for oral administration.

Eszopiclone tablets, USP 2 mg are are white, round, biconvex, film-coated tablet, debossed with "L 35" on one side and plain on other side.

Tablets: 2 mg ( 3)