2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1)
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1, 5)
Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. ( 2.1)
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1, 5.2)
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. ( 2.1, 5.3)
Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. ( 2.2, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4)
Initiate treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 2 mg to 4 mg, orally, every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets. ( 2, 5)
Periodically reassess patients receiving hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.6)
Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets in a physically-dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.7, 5.14)

2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions

Hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks.
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks.
Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available.
There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)].
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 2.1, 5)].
Initiate treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 2 mg to 4 mg, orally, every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2), Warnings and Precautions ( 5)].

2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose

Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2, 5.3, 5.4)] .

Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the­-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] .

There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent.

2.3 Initial Dosage

Initiating Treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets
Initiate treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 2 mg to 4 mg, orally, every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets.

Conversion from Other Opioids to Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets
There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose.

In general, it is safest to start hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets therapy by administering half of the usual starting dose every 4 to 6 hours for hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets. The dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets can be gradually adjusted until adequate pain relief and acceptable side effects have been achieved [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5)] .

Conversion from Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Hydromorphone Hydrochloride
The relative bioavailability of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets compared to extended-release hydromorphone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release hydromorphone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression.

2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment

Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment

Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.6 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy

Individually titrate hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2, 5.14)] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration.

If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5)] . Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.

A supplemental dose of 5 to 15% of the total daily usage may be administered every two hours on an as-needed basis.

2.7 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets

Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances.

When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid dependent patient taking hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist.

There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper.

It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances.

When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

2 mg tablets (flat faced beveled or radius edge white to off-white tablet with one side debossed “M”; other side debossed “2”)
4 mg tablets (flat faced beveled edge white to off-white tablet with one side debossed “M”; other side debossed “4”)
8 mg tablets (white to off-white arc triangle shaped tablet debossed with a bisected “M” on one side and a split “8” on the other side)

Hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets: 2 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg ( 3)