2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older. The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age because the lowest available tablet strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Use another rabeprazole formulation for pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age.

Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older

Indication
Dosage of Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets
Treatment Duration
Adults
Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
20 mg once daily
4 to 8 weeks*
Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD
20 mg once daily
Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months
Symptomatic GERD in Adults
20 mg once daily
Up to 4 weeks**
Healing of Duodenal Ulcers
20 mg once daily after the morning meal
Up to 4 weeks***
Helicobacter pyloriEradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence
Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets
20 mg Amoxicillin 1,000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5)]
7 days
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered
As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year
Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older
Symptomatic GERD
20 mg once daily
Up to 8 weeks

* For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered.

** If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered.

*** Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing.

Administration Instructions

• Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush, or split tablets.

• For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets after a meal.

• For Helicobacter pylorieradication take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with food.

• For all other indications rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food.

Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to the normal schedule. Do not take two doses at the same time.

Indication
Recommended Dosage (2)
Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks
Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD* studied for 12 months
20 mg once daily*
Symptomatic GERD in Adults
20 mg once daily for 4 weeks
Healing of Duodenal Ulcers
20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks
Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence
Three Drug Regimen:
All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days
Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release Tablets 20 mg
Amoxicillin 1,000 mg
Clarithromycin 500 mg
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs
Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older
20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks

Administration Instructions ( 2):

Swallow Rabeprazole delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush or split the tablets.
For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take Rabeprazole delayed-release tablets after a meal.
For Helicobacter pylorieradication take Rabeprazole delayed-release tablets with food.
For all other indications Rabeprazole delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets are provided in one strength, 20 mg. The tablets are yellow, round , biconvex, bevelled, coated tablets imprinted ‘20’ in black on one side.

Delayed-Release Tablets: 20 mg ( 3).