2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Recommended dosage is 40 mg or 80 mg once daily. The recommended starting dosage is 40 mg once daily. For patients who do not achieve a serum uric acid (sUA) less than 6 mg/dL after 2 weeks, the recommended dosage is 80 mg once daily. ( 2.1)
Patients with severe renal impairment: Limit the dosage to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.2, 8.6)
Flare prophylaxis is recommended upon initiation of febuxostat. ( 2.4)
Can be administered without regard to food or antacid use. ( 2.1)

2.1 Recommended Dosage

The recommended febuxostat dosage is 40 mg or 80 mg once daily.

The recommended starting dosage of febuxostat tablet is 40 mg once daily. For patients who do not achieve a serum uric acid (sUA) less than 6 mg/dL after two weeks, the recommended febuxostat dosage is 80 mg once daily.

Febuxostat tablets can be taken without regard to food or antacid use [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

Concurrent prophylactic treatment with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) or colchicine is recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)].

2.2 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment and Hepatic Impairment

The recommended dosage of febuxostat is limited to 40 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment. No dose modification is necessary when administering febuxostat in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

No dosage modification is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] .

2.3 Serum Uric Acid Level Monitoring

Testing for the target serum uric acid level of less than 6 mg/dL may be performed as early as two weeks after initiating febuxostat therapy.

2.4 Recommended Prophylaxis for Gout Flares

Gout flares may occur after initiation of febuxostat due to changing serum uric acid levels resulting in mobilization of urate from tissue deposits. Flare prophylaxis with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) or colchicine is recommended upon initiation of febuxostat tablets. Prophylactic therapy may be beneficial for up to six months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)] .

If a gout flare occurs during febuxostat tablets treatment, febuxostat tablets need not be discontinued. The gout flare should be managed concurrently, as appropriate for the individual patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Tablet: 40 mg, 80 mg. ( 3)

40 mg tablets, white to off-white, beveled-edge, oval-shaped tablets debossed with "401" on one side and plain on the other side.