2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Administration Instructions ( 2.1)

Take once daily in the morning.
Swallow whole. Do not chew or crush.
For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, open the capsules and empty the granules onto one tablespoonful of applesauce. Mix and consume the entire contents within 30 minutes. Do not chew or crush. Follow with 8 ounces of water.
Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of therapy.

Recommended Dosage

Mild to moderate active Crohn's disease ( 2.2)

Adults: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks; repeat 8 week treatment courses for recurring episodes of active disease.
Pediatrics 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily in the morning for 2 weeks.

Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn's disease ( 2.3)

Adults: 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months; taper to complete cessation after 3 months. Continued treatment for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit.
When switching from oral prednisolone, begin tapering prednisolone concomitantly with initiating budesonide delayed-release capsules.

Hepatic Impairment

Consider reducing the dosage to 3 mg once daily in adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). ( 2.4, 5.1, 8.6)

2.1 Administration Instructions

Take budesonide delayed-release capsules once daily in the morning.
Swallow budesonide delayed-release capsules whole. Do not chew or crush.
For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, budesonide delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered as follows:

Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container (e.g., empty bowl). The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing.
Open the capsule(s).
Carefully empty all the granules inside the capsule(s) on the applesauce.
Mix the granules with the applesauce.
Consume the entire contents within 30 minutes of mixing. Do not chew or crush the granules. Do not save the applesauce and granules for future use.
Follow the applesauce and granules immediately with a glass (8 ounces) of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the granules.

Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of budesonide delayed-release capsules therapy [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1)].

2.2 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn’s Disease

The recommended dosage of budesonide delayed-release capsules is:

Adults

9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks. Repeated 8 week courses of budesonide delayed-release capsules can be given for recurring episodes of active disease.

Pediatric patients 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg

9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily for 2 weeks.

2.3 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn’s Disease

The recommended dosage in adults, following an 8 week course(s) of treatment for active disease and once the patient's symptoms are controlled (CDAI less than 150), is budesonide delayed-release capsules 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months. If symptom control is still maintained at 3 months an attempt to taper to complete cessation is recommended. Continued treatment with budesonide delayed-release capsules 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit.

Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to budesonide delayed-release capsules with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency. Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly, tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating budesonide delayed-release capsules treatment.

2.4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment

Consider reducing the dosage of budesonide delayed-release capsules to 3 mg once daily for adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Delayed-Release Capsules: 3 mg ( 3)

Budesonide Delayed-Release Capsules, 3 mg are white to off-white, free flowing pellets, filled in size '1' hard gelatin capsules having opaque light-orange colored cap printed with "720" in black ink and opaque white body.