2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

One 35 mg delayed-release tablet once-a-week (2.1)

Instruct patients to:

Take Risedronate sodium delayed-release in the morning immediately following breakfast with at least 4 ounces of plain water (2.2)
Avoid lying down for 30 minutes after taking Risedronate sodium delayed-release (2.2)
Take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate (2.3)

2.1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis

[ see Indications and Usage (1.1) ]

The recommended regimen is:

one 35 mg delayed-release tablet orally, taken once-a-week

2. 2 Important Administration Instructions

Instruct patients to do the following:

Take Risedronate sodium delayed-release in the morning immediately following breakfast. Risedronate sodium delayed-release should be taken immediately following breakfast and not under fasting conditions because of a higher risk of abdominal pain if taken before breakfast when fasting.
Swallow Risedronate sodium delayed-release whole while in an upright position and with at least 4 ounces of plain water to facilitate delivery to the stomach. Avoid lying down for 30 minutes after taking the medication [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].
Do not chew, cut, or crush Risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets.

2.3 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation

Instruct patients to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] and to take calcium supplements, antacids, magnesium-based supplements or laxatives, and iron preparations at a different time of the day as they interfere with the absorption of Risedronate sodium delayed-release.

2.4 Administration Instructions for Missed Doses

If the once-weekly dose is missed, instruct patients to take one tablet on the morning after they remember and return to taking one tablet once-a-week, as originally scheduled on their chosen day. Patients should not take two tablets on the same day.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Delayed-release tablets: 35 mg, yellow, oval-shaped, and engraved with EC 35 on one side.

Delayed-release tablets: 35 mg (3)