2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Obtain lipid parameters, including serum triglyceride (TG) levels, before starting colesevelam hydrochloride tablets ( 2.1)
The recommended dosage for adults and for boys and post-menarchal girls aged 10 years to 17 years with primary hyperlipidemia is 3.75 grams daily. The recommended dosage for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus is 3.75 grams daily. Colesevelam hydrochloride tablets should be taken as follows ( 2.2, 2.4):

Take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily with a meal and liquid.

2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation of Colesevelam Hydrochloride Tablets

Obtain lipid parameters, including triglyceride (TG) levels, before starting colesevelam hydrochloride tablets. Colesevelam hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with TG levels > 500 mg/dL [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] .

2.2 Recommended Dosage in Primary Hyperlipidemia and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus

The recommended dosage of colesevelam hydrochloride for adults and for boys and post-menarchal girls aged 10 years to 17 years with primary hyperlipidemia is 3.75 grams daily. The recommended dosage of colesevelam hydrochloride for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus is 3.75 grams daily. Colesevelam hydrochloride tablets should be taken as follows:

Take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily. Due to tablet size, colesevelam hydrochloride for oral suspension is recommended for use in the pediatric population.

2.3 Important Dosing Information for Primary Hyperlipidemia

Colesevelam hydrochloride can be dosed at the same time as a statin, or colesevelam hydrochloride and the statin can be dosed apart .Monitor lipid levels within 4 weeks to 6 weeks after initiation of colesevelam hydrochloride.

2.4 Administration Instructions

Take colesevelam hydrochloride tablets with a meal and liquid. For patients with difficulty swallowing tablets, use colesevelam hydrochloride for oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Tablets: 625 mg tablets are white to off-white, oval-shaped, film-coated tablets, debossed with “C” on one side and plain on the other side.

Tablets: 625 mg ( 3)