2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

The recommended dosage is 105 mg orally once daily, started at least several hours prior to exposure to soman. Do not take on an empty stomach. Take with a medium-fat medium-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 650 calories, 40% fat) or a high-fat high-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 1,000 calories, 50% fat). Do not take with a low-fat low-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 400 calories, 25% fat) (2.2)
At the first sign of soman nerve agent poisoning, discontinue pyridostigmine and administer atropine and pralidoxime immediately. (2.2)
Evaluate use beyond 14 consecutive days in the context of the likelihood of soman exposure. (2.2)

2.1 Important Administration Information

For Military Medical Use Only.

Treatment and Protection for Soman Exposure

Pyridostigmine bromide is for use as a pretreatment for exposure to soman nerve agent (see Treatment Timing). Pyridostigmine bromide alone will not protect against exposure to soman.

Atropine and Pralidoxime

The efficacy of pyridostigmine bromide is dependent upon the rapid use of atropine and pralidoxime (2-PAM) after soman exposure.

Primary Protection

The primary protection against exposure to chemical nerve agents consists of wearing protective garments including masks, hoods, and overgarments designed specifically for this use.

Do not rely solely upon pretreatment with pyridostigmine bromide and the antidotes atropine and pralidoxime to provide complete protection from poisoning by soman nerve agent.

Treatment Timing

Pyridostigmine bromide is to be administered as pretreatment before exposure to soman nerve agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. If pyridostigmine bromide is taken immediately before exposure (e.g., when the gas attack alarm is given) or at the same time as poisoning by soman, it is not expected to be effective and may exacerbate the effects of a sublethal exposure to soman [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Do not take pyridostigmine bromide after exposure to soman.

Administration with Food

Take pyridostigmine bromide 105 mg extended-release tablets with either a medium fat, medium calorie or high fat, high calorie meal to maintain efficacious pyridostigmine levels [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

Administration with Alcohol

Pyridostigmine bromide 105 mg extended-release tablets should not be taken with alcohol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.2 Recommended Dosage, Administration, and Duration

Dosage

The recommended dosage of pyridostigmine bromide is 105 mg orally once daily with food, started at least several hours prior to exposure to soman. Do not take on an empty stomach. Take with a medium-fat medium-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 650 calories, 40% fat) or a high-fat high-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 1,000 calories, 50% fat). Do not take with a low-fat low-calorie meal (e.g., meal with 400 calories, 25% fat) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

Timing and Duration of Treatment

Timing

Pyridostigmine bromide is a pretreatment for exposure to soman nerve agent.

There is no known advantage to taking pyridostigmine bromide just prior to, or concurrent with, soman exposure. According to the mechanism of action of pyridostigmine bromide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1, 12.2)], pyridostigmine bromide is effective when it is given sufficiently in advance of soman poisoning to provide a pool of protected enzyme. Therefore, it is expected that pyridostigmine bromide will not be effective if administered just prior to or during exposure to soman.

Duration

At the first sign of nerve agent poisoning, discontinue pyridostigmine bromide and administer pretreatment with atropine and pralidoxime immediately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

The benefits and risks of use beyond 14 consecutive days have not been definitively established; therefore, evaluate continued use beyond 14 consecutive days in the context of the likelihood of exposure to soman nerve agent.

Missed Dose

If a dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Resume dosing at 24-hour intervals from the time the missed dose was taken. Do not take double or extra doses.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Extended-Release Tablets: 105 mg, peach, oval, coated, unscored, biconvex tablets imprinted with “A2 463” on one side and plain on the other side. A hole may be visible on one side of the tablet.

Extended-release tablets: 105 mg (3)