Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Winsted, Minnesota

Accident Number:

CEN23LA337

Date & Time:

July 30, 2023, 16:55 Local

Registration:

N967DT

Aircraft:

Cub Crafters CCX-2000

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Unknown or undetermined

Injuries:

1 None

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

The pilot stated that on final approach, with full flaps down and the airplane about 50 ft above
ground level (agl), the propeller stopped turning and the engine lost all power. He stated that
he added power, but the engine did not respond. The pilot was unable to arrest the descent
and the airplane landed hard, which resulted in substantial damage to the fuselage.

Postaccident examination of the airframe and engine revealed that the fuel servo idle mixture
adjustment was found in a nearly full-lean setting. Although an improperly set idle mixture
adjustment could have resulted in a total loss of engine power at a low power setting, the
examination was unable to identify the preaccident idle rpm and idle mixture settings and was
therefore unable to determine if the full-lean setting resulted in the loss of engine power while
on final approach. Examination of the rest of the engine, including the ignition and fuel
injection systems, revealed no additional defects or abnormalities.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

A total loss of engine power on approach for undetermined reasons.

Page 1 of 7
Findings

Aircraft

(general) - Unknown/Not determined

Personnel issues

Aircraft control - Pilot

Aircraft

(general) - Incorrect service/maintenance

Page 2 of 7

CEN23LA337
Factual Information

History of Flight

Approach-VFR pattern final

Unknown or undetermined (Defining event)

Landing-flare/touchdown

Hard landing

On July 30, 2023, about 1655 central daylight time, a Cub Crafters CCX-2000 Carbon Cub
airplane, N967DT, was substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident near
Winsted, Minnesota. The pilot was uninjured. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of
Federal Regulations Part 91 personal flight.

The pilot stated that before departure, he ensured the airplane was fueled to capacity, and he
checked all three fuel drain ports for water and contamination, with none noted. The pilot
departed from Crystal Airport (MIC), Minneapolis, Minnesota, and flew toward Winsted
Municipal Airport (10D), Winsted, Minnesota, about 31 nautical miles west of MIC. After
practicing slow flight and a series of stalls, the pilot decided to land at 10D. The pilot stated
that the airplane was performing well, and he observed no anomalies during the flight until
final approach, when the engine lost all power about 50 ft agl. The pilot reported that his first
indication of power loss was when the propeller stopped rotating. He further stated that he
was close to the ground and did not attempt an engine restart or conduct the emergency
checklist. The pilot reported he then applied full throttle, pushed the stick forward to unload the
wings and prevent a stall, then quickly pulled the stick aft to slow the descent rate. The pilot
was unable to arrest the descent, and the airplane landed hard on the turf runway, which
resulted in substantial damage to the fuselage.

Postaccident examination revealed that the fuselage was fractured and dented in several
locations, and the trailing edge of the right aileron was damaged. The fuel tank and drain
sumps contained aviation fuel that was clean and free of debris and water. The engine
reservoir contained oil, and no debris or metallic material was present in the oil filter. The
electronic ignition system could not be tested. All spark plugs appeared in normal condition,
with moderate carbon fouling and no electrode damage or oil fouling. The air filter was
partially soiled. The fuel injectors and flow divider were unremarkable. The fuel servo was
unremarkable except for the idle mixture adjustment, which was found in a nearly full-lean
setting. Manual rotation of the engine by the propeller produced thumb compression in each
cylinder and established accessory gear and valvetrain continuity.

Further examination was completed by an independent mechanic after recovery of the
airplane. At that time, the mechanic removed 30 gallons of fuel from the airplane. The ignition
system wiring was unremarkable and the ignition modules were tested by the manufacturer

Page 3 of 7

CEN23LA337
with satisfactory results. The fuel injection system was also sent to the manufacturer for
inspection, with no defects or abnormalities found. The independent mechanic removed each
cylinder from the engine and internally inspected the engine and found it to be unremarkable.

A download of data from the onboard Garmin G3X electronic flight instrument system
recovered 805 flight log files, including the accident flight of about 1 hour 11 minutes. The data
showed that the flight departed MIC and proceeded uneventfully until the final moments of the
approach to 10D. At 1654:33, about one minute before the total power loss, engine parameters
started showing a progressive decline in power output. At that time, the engine was producing
23% power at 1,820 rpm, with the airplane at a GPS altitude of 1,806 ft and an indicated
airspeed of 57 kts. Within four seconds, engine power decreased to 21% at 1,500 rpm, and
power continued to decline to 12% at 970 rpm. Over the next 40 seconds, engine power and
speed continued to fall alongside decreasing cylinder head and exhaust gas temperatures. At
1655:28, the engine speed fell to 150 rpm, with a corresponding increase in manifold pressure
to 26 inches of mercury, consistent with an engine shutdown. At that time, the GPS altitude
was 1,064 ft and the indicated airspeed was 45 kts. The ignition back-up and left and right
ignition off messages were briefly active only before takeoff and did not activate while the
airplane was airborne. The integrated battery back-up system in use message was never active
during the accident flight.

The pilot provided investigators with a video of the accident from a camera mounted in the
cockpit. The video began with the airplane flying on a north-northeasterly heading, about to
turn left onto the downwind leg to land at 10D. The pilot communicated his intent to land on
runway 9 and back taxi. The pilot then made several inputs to reduce engine power and to turn
onto left base. The final portion of the video continued with the airplane on final approach
when the engine stopped running about 45 ft agl. Crew alerting system messages activated
shortly thereafter, alerting the pilot of “AMPS” and “OIL PRESS.” The pilot then applied full
throttle and abruptly pulled the control stick aft. The airplane landed hard, the landing gear
collapsed, and the airplane ground looped toward the left during the rollout. The video ended
shortly thereafter.

Page 4 of 7

CEN23LA337
Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

55,Male

Front

5-point

Medical Certification:

Class 3 With waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

January 9, 2023

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

February 5, 2023

Flight Time:

595.6 hours (Total, all aircraft), 426.4 hours (Total, this make and model), 518 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 35.7 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 13.9 hours (Last 30 days, all
aircraft), 1.5 hours (Last 24 hours, all aircraft)

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Cub Crafters

CCX-2000

Year of Manufacture:

2020

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

N967DT

Airplane

Yes

Airworthiness Certificate:

Experimental (Special)

Serial Number:

CCX-2000-0095

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

2

Date/Type of Last Inspection: August 22, 2022 Condition

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

2000 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

83 Hrs

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

273.9 Hrs at time of accident Engine Manufacturer:

Lycoming

ELT:

C126 installed, not activated

Engine Model/Series:

CC363i

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Rated Power:

186 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Page 5 of 7

CEN23LA337
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KHCD,1060 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

14 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

16:55 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

247°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Scattered / 8500 ft AGL

Visibility

10 miles

Lowest Ceiling:

Broken / 12000 ft AGL

Visibility (RVR):

Wind Speed/Gusts:

/

Wind Direction:

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

/

/

Altimeter Setting:

30.17 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

24°C / 13°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Crystal, MN (MIC)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

None

Destination:

Winsted, MN (10D)

Type of Clearance:

Departure Time:

16:00 Local

Type of Airspace:

VFR

Class G

Airport Information

Airport:

WINSTED MUNI 10D

Runway Surface Type:

Grass/turf

Airport Elevation:

1030 ft msl

Runway Used:

09/27

Runway Surface Condition:

Dry

IFR Approach:

None

Runway Length/Width:

3248 ft / 200 ft

VFR Approach/Landing:

Full stop;Traffic pattern

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 None

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

N/A

Ground Injuries:

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 None

Latitude, Longitude:

44.95384,-94.06829

Page 6 of 7

CEN23LA337
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Williams, David

Additional Participating
Persons:

Daniel Sindt; FAA; Minneapolis, MN

Original Publish Date:

September 30, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192751

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

CEN23LA337