Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Glendive, Montana

Accident Number:

WPR23FA286

Date & Time:

July 28, 2023, 14:10 Local

Registration:

N2442

Aircraft:

RISEN 915 iS

Aircraft Damage:

Destroyed

Defining Event:

Loss of control in flight

Injuries:

1 Fatal

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

The pilot was conducting a personal cross-country flight in his experimental, amateur-built
airplane, and the accident occurred on day nine of the flight.

The airport manager at the departure airport reported that he assisted the pilot with fueling the
airplane with about 15 gallons of fuel. He reported that the engine sounded like it was at full
power during takeoff; however, the airplane appeared to climb slower than he expected to
about 300-400 ft above ground level (agl). The main landing gear were up but the nose gear
appeared to be partially extended and had not completely retracted. He watched the airplane
maintain a low altitude at a low airspeed until he observed a “wing drop,” and the airplane
subsequently made two turns in a “flat spin” with about a 45-60° nose-down attitude as it
descended behind terrain.

Postaccident examination revealed no anomalies with the airframe or engine that would have
precluded normal operation. Damage signatures and witness accounts indicated that the
engine was producing power at the time of the accident. The debris path was consistent with a
steep impact angle.

Evidence suggests that the pilot failed to maintain airspeed during the climb, which resulted in
an exceedance of the airplane’s critical angle of attack and a subsequent aerodynamic
stall/spin. The pilot had texted the aircraft kit manufacturer that he was having problems with
the engine overheating; however, had made modifications to the cooling system that appeared
to be successful, according to his texts with the owner of a similar airplane. The airplane’s
emergency parachute was found deployed at the accident site. Since the parachute was
unfurled, it is likely that the parachute deployment was the result of ground contact.

Page 1 of 7
Evidence suggests that the pilot failed to maintain airspeed during the climb, which resulted in
an exceedance of the airplane’s critical angle of attack and a subsequent aerodynamic
stall/spin. The nose landing gear did not retract fully after takeoff. Although this may have
created a distraction for the pilot that resulted in a loss of airspeed while he was
troubleshooting the nose landing gear retraction, the investigation was not able to determine
the reason for the pilot’s loss of control.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot’s failure to maintain airspeed, which resulted in an exceedance of the airplane’s
critical angle of attack and an aerodynamic stall/spin.

Findings

Personnel issues

Aircraft control - Pilot

Aircraft

Aircraft

Angle of attack - Not attained/maintained

Nose/tail landing gear - Unknown/Not determined

Page 2 of 7

WPR23FA286
Factual Information

History of Flight

Takeoff

Takeoff

Unknown or undetermined

Loss of control in flight (Defining event)

On July 28, 2023, about 1410 mountain daylight time, an experimental amateur-built Risen 915
iS, N2442, was destroyed when it was involved in an accident near Glendive, Montana. The
pilot was fatally injured. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations
Part 91 personal flight.

The pilot was conducting a personal cross-country flight that originated in Georgia eight days
before the accident and had proceeded to Felts Field (SFF), Spokane, Washington. The day
before the accident, the pilot departed SFF and flew to the Dawson Community Airport (GDV),
Glendive, Montana. The pilot initially had planned to attend the EAA AirVenture Oshkosh Air
Show in Oshkosh, Wisconsin. However, the pilot mentioned to a witness that he was
abandoning his attempt to make the airshow due to operational delays. The pilot’s destination
when he departed GDV is unknown.

The GDV airport manager reported that he assisted the pilot with fueling the airplane with
about 15 gallons of fuel, and he mentioned that the pilot was in good spirits. He expected that
the pilot intended to do a fly-by the airport after takeoff to demonstrate the speed of the
airplane, which had a cruise speed just under 200 knots. The airport manager reported that he
observed the airplane depart runway 12 at 1408. . The engine sounded like it was at full power
during takeoff; however, the airplane appeared to climb slower than he expected to about 300-
400 ft agl. The main landing gear were up but the nose gear appeared to be partially extended
and had not completely retracted. He watched the airplane maintain a low altitude at a low
airspeed until he observed a “wing drop,” and the airplane subsequently made two turns in a
“flat spin” with about a 45-60° nose-down attitude as it descended behind terrain.

A second witness, who was located near the accident site, reported observing the airplane
flying low and slow in a turn at the time of the accident; it appeared that the airplane was
returning to the airport. The witness stated that he heard a loud pop and then observed a wing
drop before the airplane entered a rotating nose-low attitude until it disappeared behind terrain.
Subsequently, he observed smoke originating from the area where he had lost sight of the
airplane.

Page 3 of 7

WPR23FA286
Pilot Information

Certificate:

Commercial

Age:

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): Helicopter

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Instrument Rating(s):

Airplane

Second Pilot Present:

57,Male

Left

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Toxicology Performed:

Yes

Medical Certification:

Class 3 None

Last FAA Medical Exam:

May 17, 2023

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Flight Time:

(Estimated) 500 hours (Total, all aircraft), 60 hours (Total, this make and model)

The pilot's logbook was not recovered. This pilot reported civil flight experience that included
492 total and 15 hours in last six months as of exam dated 5/17/2023.

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Year of Manufacture:

RISEN

915 iS

2023

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

Airworthiness Certificate:

Experimental (Special)

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Retractable - Tricycle

Seats:

N2442

Airplane

Yes

26

2

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

July 19, 2023 Unknown

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

1378 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

60 Hrs as of last inspection

Engine Manufacturer:

ELT:

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Engine Model/Series:

ROTAX

915 iS

Rated Power:

135 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

The pilot’s long cross-country journey was delayed due to maintenance issues with the
airplane that presented themselves as the flight progressed. The pilot reported to the airplane
kit manufacturer via text messages that the airplane was having an overheating issue during
higher operating air temperatures on the ground, during taxi, and climbing after takeoff. The
pilot had been diagnosing performance issues and made modifications to the cooling system.
He texted the owner of a similar make and model airplane before the accident flight and
indicated that the modifications had worked. No other information was available in regard to

Page 4 of 7

WPR23FA286
the engine overheating. There was no mention of overheating in the squawks or airplane
service records. A flight logbook was not recovered.

Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KGDV,2457 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

1 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

13:56 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

279°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Scattered / 7000 ft AGL

Visibility

10 miles

Lowest Ceiling:

Wind Speed/Gusts:

None

/ None

Wind Direction:

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A / N/A

Altimeter Setting:

30.16 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

28°C / 9°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Glendive , MT

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Type of Clearance:

Type of Airspace:

Class G

None

None

Destination:

Departure Time:

Airport Information

Airport:

DAWSON COMMUNITY GDV

Runway Surface Type:

Asphalt

Airport Elevation:

2458 ft msl

Runway Surface Condition:

Dry

Runway Used:

12

IFR Approach:

Runway Length/Width:

5704 ft / 100 ft

VFR Approach/Landing:

None

None

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Fatal

Aircraft Damage:

Destroyed

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

On-ground

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 Fatal

Latitude, Longitude:

47.13017,-104.77288

Examination of the accident site revealed that the airplane impacted terrain about 1.5 miles
southeast of GDV in a farmer’s field. The airplane was mostly consumed by a postimpact fire.

Page 5 of 7

WPR23FA286
All major structural components of the airplane were accounted for at the accident site,
including the fuel tanks, fuel system, and flight controls; no debris path was observed.
Examination of these components revealed no anomalies. The main and nosewheel landing
gear were mostly consumed by fire and not able to be functionally tested. Windshield
fragments were found 30 ft forward of the nose. Carbon fiber airplane pieces were scattered
aft of the tail for about 30 ft. The debris path was consistent with a steep impact angle. The
emergency parachute had been discharged, but the chute had not unfurled. No track data of
the accident flight was available. Flight control continuity was established and traced from the
control inputs in the flight deck to their respective control surfaces in the wings and tail.

Postaccident examination of the engine revealed it had sustained significant damage from the
impact and the postimpact fire. Each of the cylinders passed the manufacturer’s hardness test
to determine if the engine had experienced operational overheating. The examination found no
evidence of overheating nor were any preimpact mechanical anomalies identified in the engine
or accessories that would have precluded normal operation.

Medical and Pathological Information

An autopsy of the pilot was performed by the Department of Justice Forensic Science Division
Montana State Chief Medical Examiner, Billings, Montana, which listed the cause of death as
“blunt force injuries.” Toxicology testing performed by the FAA Forensic Sciences Laboratory
did not identify any substances that are generally considered impairing.

Page 6 of 7

WPR23FA286
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Johnson, Scott

Additional Participating
Persons:

Jeffery Simmon; Federal Aviation Administration; Helena, MT

Original Publish Date:

July 8, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192733

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

WPR23FA286