Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Aberdeen, South Dakota

Accident Number:

CEN23LA334

Date & Time:

July 27, 2023, 14:30 Local

Registration:

N8503W

Aircraft:

Air Tractor AT802

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Loss of control on ground

Injuries:

1 None

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 137: Agricultural

Analysis

The pilot of the tailwheel-equipped airplane was taxiing from the loading ramp to runway 35 for
his third aerial application flight of the day. As the airplane taxied, it did not respond to the
pilot’s inputs and departed the taxiway before it ground looped. During the ground loop, the
right main landing gear collapsed and the right wing impacted the surface which resulted in
substantial damage. Postaccident examination of the airframe revealed no evidence of any
preimpact mechanical malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation.

At the time of the accident, the pilot was taxiing the airplane to the south with wind from 050°
at 12 kts, resulting in about a 6 kt tailwind component and a 10 kt left crosswind component. It
is likely that the pilot lost directional control of the airplane when taxiing with a quartering
tailwind.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot's failure to maintain directional control while taxiing with a quartering tailwind, which
resulted in a ground loop.

Page 1 of 7
Findings

Personnel issues

Aircraft control - Pilot

Aircraft

Directional control - Not attained/maintained

Environmental issues

Crosswind - Ability to respond/compensate

Page 2 of 7

CEN23LA334
Factual Information

History of Flight

Taxi-to runway

Taxi-to runway

Taxi-to runway

Other weather encounter

Loss of control on ground (Defining event)

Attempted remediation/recovery

On July 27, 2023, at 1430 central daylight time, an Air Tractor AT-802A airplane, N8503W, was
substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident at the Aberdeen Regional Airport,
(ABR) Aberdeen, South Dakota. The pilot was not injured. The airplane was operated as a Title
14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 137 aerial application flight.

The pilot reported that while taxiing from the loading ramp to depart for his third agricultural
application flight of the day, the airplane veered left. He attempted to correct by braking, but
the airplane did not respond and continued turning to the left. With the pilot unable to arrest
the turn, the airplane ground looped to the left. During the ground loop, the right main landing
gear collapsed, and the right wing impacted the surface which resulted in substantial damage.

Pilot Information

Certificate:

Commercial

Age:

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

32,Male

Center

4-point

Medical Certification:

Class 2 Without
waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

May 22, 2023

Occupational Pilot:

Yes

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Flight Time:

5500 hours (Total, all aircraft), 1300 hours (Total, this make and model), 5500 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 250 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 250 hours (Last 30 days, all
aircraft), 12 hours (Last 24 hours, all aircraft)

Page 3 of 7

CEN23LA334
Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Air Tractor

AT802 A

Year of Manufacture:

2002

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

N8503W

Airplane

Airworthiness Certificate:

Restricted (Special)

Serial Number:

802A-0134

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

1

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

June 22, 2023 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

16000 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Airframe Total Time:

8144.4 Hrs at time of
accident

Engines:

1 Turbo prop

Engine Manufacturer:

Pratt and Whitney Canada

ELT:

Not installed

Engine Model/Series:

PT6A-65AG

Registered Owner:

PIONEER AGVIATION 2 LLC

Rated Power:

1295 Horsepower

Operator:

PIONEER AGVIATION 2 LLC

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

Agricultural aircraft (137)

Operator Does Business As:

Operator Designator Code:

753G

Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KABR,1298 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

1 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

13:53 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

73°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

12 knots / None

Wind Direction:

50°

Visibility

10 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A / N/A

Altimeter Setting:

29.82 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

30°C / 20°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Destination:

Departure Time:

Aberdeen, SD

Aberdeen, SD

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

None

Type of Clearance:

Type of Airspace:

VFR

Class G

The calculated tailwind component was about 6 kts and the calculated crosswind component
was about 10 kts.

Page 4 of 7

CEN23LA334
Airport Information

Airport:

ABERDEEN RGNL ABR

Runway Surface Type:

Airport Elevation:

1301 ft msl

Runway Used:

Runway Length/Width:

Runway Surface Condition:

Dry

IFR Approach:

VFR Approach/Landing:

None

None

The north end of the general aviation ramp, taxiways D1, D2, D3, D between D2 and D3, and F,
and runway 13/31 were closed by NOTAM at the time of the accident.

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 None

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 None

Latitude, Longitude:

45.441366,-98.42646(est)

Examination of the accident site revealed that the airplane was taxiing southbound on taxiway
C toward runway 35, departed the left side of the taxiway, and came to rest on a 240° heading.
The right main landing gear was separated from and folded beneath the fuselage. Dark, arcing
tire marks on the taxiway surface continued into the grass and ended at the left main landing
gear. Tire marks aligned with the right main landing gear began on the taxiway surface,
continued into the grass, and terminated at the right main landing gear.

Examination of the recovered wreckage revealed substantial damage to the right wing and the
main landing gear mount structure. The right main landing gear attachment hardware was
retained and forwarded to the NTSB Materials Laboratory in Washington, DC, for examination.
The hardware was examined using a bench binocular microscope and a hardness tester, which
revealed fracture features consistent with overstress separation, with no evidence of fatigue
cracking.

Postaccident examination of the brake system revealed no preimpact mechanical
malfunctions or failures that would have precluded normal operation. The brake system was
partially disassembled during the recovery of the wreckage from the accident site. Control
continuity for the brake system was established from the cockpit controls to the left and right

Page 5 of 7

CEN23LA334
main landing gear. The hardware for the brake system was installed and intact. Both brakes
were actuated inside the cockpit with no issues or interference noted.

There were no observed fluid leaks within the brake system. A small amount of brake fluid was
extracted from the right side of the brake system. The brake fluid had a red appearance, with
several small pieces of dark-colored debris. There was not enough fluid recovered to be tested
for impurities.

The brake cylinder in the cockpit was found connected and showed no fluid leaks. Both brake
calipers were found removed and appeared to be in normal condition, with no damage or fluid
leaks. Both brake discs showed normal wear with no damage or obvious warping. Both tires
showed normal wear with no major damage.

Page 6 of 7

CEN23LA334
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Brown, Zane

Additional Participating
Persons:

Brandon Caneva; FAA FSDO; Rapid City, SD
Dakota Lowe; Air Tractor Inc.; Olney, TX

Original Publish Date:

August 20, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192747

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

CEN23LA334