Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Laconia, New Hampshire

Accident Number:

ERA23LA318

Date & Time:

July 30, 2023, 20:30 Local

Registration:

N9855A

Aircraft:

Cessna 195A

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Loss of control on ground

Injuries:

1 None

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

In a written statement, the pilot said that he completed the final, 3-hour leg of a multi-leg cross-
country flight and landed 1 hour after official sunset. The pilot described the landing as being a
routine 3-point landing in the tailwheel-equipped airplane in “perfect” weather conditions. He
stated that, during the landing roll about 1,200 ft down the runway, the airplane “suddenly
turned sharply to the right.” He applied full brakes but was unable to arrest the turn. The
airplane departed the right side of the runway and came to rest with the left main landing gear
folded beneath the fuselage, which was substantially damaged.

The pilot initially reported a ground loop event, and then later stated the accident resulted from
locked wheel brakes on either the right or left side, or perhaps a sheared left main landing gear
attachment bolt.

Examination of the airplane revealed no preimpact mechanical anomalies with the airplane. A
secondary examination of the left main landing gear attachment hardware revealed damage
and fracture signatures consistent with overstress. The pilot did not have any recent night
flying experience.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot’s failure to maintain directional control of the tailwheel-equipped airplane, which
resulted in a ground-loop.

Page 1 of 7
Findings

Aircraft

Yaw control - Capability exceeded

Personnel issues

Aircraft control - Pilot

Page 2 of 7

ERA23LA318
Factual Information

History of Flight

Landing-landing roll

Loss of control on ground (Defining event)

Landing-landing roll

Runway excursion

On July 30, 2023, at 2030 eastern daylight time, a Cessna 195A, N9855A, was substantially
damaged when it was involved in an accident near Laconia, New Hampshire. The airline
transport pilot was not injured. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of Federal
Regulations Part 91 personal flight.

In a written statement, the pilot said that he completed the final, 3-hour leg of a multi-leg cross-
country flight and landed 1 hour after official sunset. The pilot described a “routine” 3-point
landing in the tailwheel-equipped airplane in “perfect” weather conditions. During the landing
roll, about 1,200 ft down runway 26, the airplane “suddenly turned sharply to the right.” The
pilot applied “full brakes” but was unable to arrest the turn. The airplane departed the right side
of the runway and came to rest on a 160° heading, with the left main landing gear folded
beneath the fuselage. There were no witnesses. Surveillance video of the airplane’s final
approach was captured by a camera about 1 mile from the approach end of the runway and
lacked the definition to depict the accident sequence.

In an interview with a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) aviation safety inspector, the pilot
initially reported that the airplane ground looped and then later suggested the “left main gear
wheel locked up” and then suggested the “right brake likely stuck.”

Photographs of the accident site depicted dark, arcing tire marks on the runway surface that
continued into the grass and ended at the left main landing gear. Tire marks aligned with the
right main landing gear began in the grass at the runway edge and terminated at the right main
landing gear tire. Buckling of the right wing, fuselage, and the main landing gear mount
structure revealed substantial damage in those areas.

The pilot held airline transport and flight engineer certificates with ratings in both single and
multiengine airplanes. The pilot completed the requirements for operation under BasicMed on
June 3, 2022. The pilot declared 20,941 total hours of flight experience, of which 953 hours
were in the accident airplane make and model. According to the FAA inspector and the pilot’s
reported flight time, the pilot did not have any recent night flight time experience.

According to FAA and maintenance records, the airplane was manufactured in 1950 and was
powered by a Jacobs R755S, 350-horsepower engine. The airplane’s most recent annual
inspection was completed May 23, 2023, at 3,370.5 total aircraft hours.

Page 3 of 7

ERA23LA318
Examination of the airplane by the FAA inspector revealed no preimpact mechanical
anomalies.

The left main landing gear wheel and tire, mounting hardware, and shims were retained and
forwarded to the National Transportation Safety Board Materials Laboratory in Washington,
DC. The examination revealed that two of the three mounting studs were fractured and
displayed features consistent with “shear/bending overstress fractures.” The third stud
remained intact, but the attachment nut was missing, and the threads were “stripped” and
“smeared.”

Pilot Information

Certificate:

Airline transport; Flight engineer

Age:

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land; Multi-engine
land

Seat Occupied:

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Restraint Used:

Instrument Rating(s):

Airplane

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Medical Certification:

BasicMed Without
waivers/limitations

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

Last FAA Medical Exam:

79,Male

Left

4-point

No

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

April 18, 2022

Flight Time:

20941 hours (Total, all aircraft), 953 hours (Total, this make and model), 16098 hours (Pilot In
Command, all aircraft), 32 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 21 hours (Last 30 days, all aircraft)

Page 4 of 7

ERA23LA318
Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Year of Manufacture:

Cessna

195A

1950

Airworthiness Certificate:

Normal

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

N9855A

Airplane

7548

5

Date/Type of Last Inspection: May 23, 2023 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

3350 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

19 Hrs

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

3370.5 Hrs as of last
inspection

Engine Manufacturer:

Jacobs

ELT:

Installed, not activated

Engine Model/Series:

R755S

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Rated Power:

350 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Dusk

Observation Facility, Elevation:

LCI,545 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

1 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

16:56 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

241°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

8 knots / 14 knots

Wind Direction:

280°

Visibility

10 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A /

Altimeter Setting:

29.89 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

23°C / 11°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Johnstown, NY (NYQ)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Departure Time:

Laconia, NH

17:30 Local

Type of Clearance:

Type of Airspace:

Class E

None

None

Page 5 of 7

ERA23LA318
Airport Information

Airport:

LACONIA MUNI LCI

Runway Surface Type:

Asphalt

Airport Elevation:

545 ft msl

Runway Used:

26

Runway Surface Condition:

Dry

IFR Approach:

None

Runway Length/Width:

5890 ft / 100 ft

VFR Approach/Landing:

Straight-in

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 None

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Passenger Injuries:

Ground Injuries:

N/A

N/A

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

1 None

Latitude, Longitude:

43.573042,-71.417842(est)

Page 6 of 7

ERA23LA318
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Rayner, Brian

Additional Participating
Persons:

Matthew Hall; FAA/FSDO; Portland , ME

Original Publish Date:

June 4, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192750

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

ERA23LA318