2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Schizophrenia in adults (2.1)

Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days

Schizophrenia in adolescents (2.1)

Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day

Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2)

Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily

Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2)

Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day

Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2)

Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily

Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults (2.5)

Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily

Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5)

Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily

Treatment Resistant Depression in adults (2.6)

Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily

•

Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. (2.1)

•

Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals. (2.1)

Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination:

•

Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. (2.5, 2.6)

•

Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. (2.5, 2.6)

•

Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. (2.5, 2.6)

•

Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. (2.5)

2.1 Schizophrenia

Adults

Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Further dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week, since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended.

Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 10 to 15 mg/day in clinical trials. However, doses above 10 mg/day were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. An increase to a dose greater than the target dose of 10 mg/day (i.e., to a dose of 15 mg/day or greater) is recommended only after clinical assessment. Olanzapine is not indicated for use in doses above 20 mg/day.

Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients.

Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.

Adolescents

Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with schizophrenia was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 12.5 mg/day (mean dose of 11.1 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 or 5 mg are recommended.

The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1)].

Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment.

2.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes)

Adults

Dose Selection for Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 10 or 15 mg. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours, reflecting the procedures in the placebo-controlled trials. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended.

Short-term (3 to 4 weeks) antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)].

Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.

Dose Selection for Adjunctive Treatment — When administered as adjunctive treatment to lithium or valproate, oral olanzapine dosing should generally begin with 10 mg once-a-day without regard to meals.

Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials.

Adolescents

Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 10.7 mg/day (mean dose of 8.9 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 or 5 mg are recommended.

The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)].

Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment.

2.5 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder

When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax.

Adults
Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 12.5 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies.

Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years of age)
Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies.

Safety and efficacy of olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability.

Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax^a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine

For Symbyax (mg/day)

Use in Combination

Olanzapine (mg/day)

Fluoxetine (mg/day)

3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine

2.5

20

6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine

5

20

12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine

10+2.5

20

6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine

5

40+10

12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine

10+2.5

40+10

^a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine.

While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy.

Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.

2.6 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression

When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax.

Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg.

Safety and efficacy of olanzapine in combination with fluoxetine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. Table 1 above demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability.

While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in adult patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode) is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy.

Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies.

Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode).

2.7 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations

The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Dosing modification may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Olanzapine tablets, USP are available as follows:

Olanzapine tablets, USP 2.5 mg are white, round, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved "APO" on one side, "OLA" over "2.5" on the other side.

Olanzapine tablets, USP 5 mg are white, round, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved “APO” on one side, “OLA” over “5” on the other side.

Olanzapine tablets, USP 7.5 mg are white, round, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved “APO” on one side, “OLA” over “7.5” on the other side.

Olanzapine tablets, USP 10 mg are white, round, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved “APO” on one side, “OLA” over “10” on the other side.

Olanzapine tablets, USP 15 mg are light blue, elliptical, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved “APO” on one side, “OLA 15” on the other side.

Olanzapine tablets, USP 20 mg are light pink, elliptical, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved “APO” on one side, “OLA 20” on the other side.

•

Tablets (not scored): 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15, 20 mg. (3)