2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Population
Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 )
Healing of EE (1 year and older)
EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD (1 month to less than 1 year)
Adults
20 mg or 40 mg ^1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks
12 years to 17 years
20 mg or 40 mg ^1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks
Maintenance of Healing of EE
Adults
20 mg once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months
Treatment of Symptomatic GERD
Adults
20 mg once daily once daily for 4 weeks some patients may require an additional 4 weeks
12 years to 17 years
20 mg once daily for 4 weeks
Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer
Adults
20 mg or 40 mg ^1 once daily for up to 6 months ^2
H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence
Adults
Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg ^1once daily for 10 days
Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily for 10 days ^3 ^
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 10 days ^3 ^
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
Adults
Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily ^4 (varies with the individual patient) as long as clinically indicated.

1 A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).

2 Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months.

3 Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients.

4 A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).

Preparation and Administration Information

Swallow capsules whole; do not crush or chew. For patients who cannot swallow intact capsule, the capsule can be opened, and the contents mixed with applesauce. ( 2.3 )
Opened capsules can be administered through a nasogastric tube. ( 2.3 )

2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults by Indication

Table 1 shows the recommended adult dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules by indication.
The duration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules treatment should be based on available safety and efficacy data specific to the defined indication and dosing frequency and individual patient medical needs. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules should only be initiated and continued if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment.
Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication

Adult Indication
Recommended Dosage of
Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules
Treatment Duration
Healing of EE
20 mg or 40 mg ^1 once daily
4 to 8 weeks ^2
Maintenance of Healing of EE
20 mg once daily
Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months
Treatment of Symptomatic GERD
20 mg once daily
4 weeks; if symptoms do not resolve completely, consider an additional 4 weeks
Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer
20 mg or 40 mg ^1once daily
Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months
H. pyloriEradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy)
Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily ^1
10 days
Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily ^3
10 days
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily ^3
10 days
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily ^4; individualize the regimen to patient needs.
Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7)].
As long as clinically indicated

^1.A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)].
^2.Most patients are healed within 4 to 8 weeks. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [see Clinical Studies (14.1)].
^3.Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients.
^4.A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)].

2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients by Indication

Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication.

Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication

Indication
Patient Age
Recommended Dosage
Duration
Healing of EE
12 years to 17 years
Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules:
20 mg or 40 mg once daily
4 to 8 Weeks
Treatment of Symptomatic GERD
12 years to 17 years
Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules:
20 mg once daily
4 weeks

2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions

Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ].
Antacids may be used concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules.
Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time.

Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules

Administer esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules orally or via a nasogastric tube, as described below.

Oral Administration

Swallow esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew or crush the capsules.
For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules can be opened, and the contents sprinkled on applesauce. Use with other foods has not been evaluated and is not recommended.

1. Add one tablespoon of applesauce to an empty bowl. The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing.

2. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and carefully empty the granules inside the capsule onto the applesauce.

3. Mix the granules with the applesauce.

4. Administer the mixture immediately. Do not chew or crush the granules

5. Discard any remaining mixture. Do not store the mixture for future use.

Administration via Nasogastric Tube

1. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and empty the granules into a 60 mL catheter-tipped syringe.

2. Mix the granules with 50 mL of water.

3. Replace the plunger and shake the catheter-tipped syringe vigorously for 15 seconds.

4. Hold the catheter-tipped syringe with the tip up and check for any granules remaining in the tip.

5. Attach the catheter-tipped syringe to a nasogastric tube and deliver the contents of the syringe through the nasogastric tube into the stomach.

6. After administering the granules, flush the nasogastric tube with additional water.

7. Use the mixture immediately after preparation. Do not administer the granules if they have dissolved or disintegrated.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules USP, 20 mg are white opaque size '4' hard gelatin capsule imprinted with “H” on cap and 'E2' on body filled with off white to pale yellow pellets.
Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules USP, 40 mg are white opaque size '3' hard gelatin capsule imprinted with “H” on cap and 'E3' on body filled with off white to pale yellow pellets.

· Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules: 20 mg and 40 mg. ( 3)