2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules are two different products and they are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. Select the recommended product (Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules) based on the indication and patient's weight.

OAB in Adults

The recommended starting dose of mirabegron extended-release tablets is 25 mg orally once daily. ( 2.2)
After 4 to 8 weeks, the mirabegron extended-release tablets dose may be increased to 50 mg orally once daily. ( 2.2)

NDO in Pediatric Patients 3 Years and Older

Pediatric Patients weighing 35 kg or more: Use mirabegron extended-release tablets:
The recommended starting dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets is 25 mg orally once daily. After 4 to 8 weeks, the mirabegron extended-release tablets dose may be increased to 50 mg orally once daily. ( 2.3)

Adult or Pediatric Patients Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: Refer to the full prescribing information for recommended dosage. ( 2.4, 2.5)

Administration

Mirabegron extended-release tablets:

Adult patients: Swallow mirabegron extended-release tablets whole with water. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with or without food. ( 2.7)
Pediatric patients: Swallow mirabegron extended-release tablets whole with water. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with food. ( 2.7)

2.1 Important Dosage Information

Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules are two different products and they are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis.

Select the recommended product (Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules) based on the indication and patient's weight [see Indications and Usage ( 1) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5)].

2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients with OAB

Mirabegron Monotherapy

The recommended starting dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets is 25 mg orally once daily. If needed, increase to the maximum dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets 50 mg orally once daily after 4 to 8 weeks. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7).

2.3 Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Years and Older with NDO

For pediatric patients 3 years of age and older, select the appropriate product (Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules) based on the patient's weight.

Pediatric Patients weighing 35 kg or more: Use mirabegron extended-release tablets

The recommended starting dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets is 25 mg orally once daily. If needed, increase to a maximum dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets 50 mg orally once daily after 4 to 8 weeks. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.7).

2.4 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment

Dosage in Adults with Renal Impairment

The recommended dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets (administered orally once daily) in adult patients with renal impairment is described in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6)]. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7).

Table 1: Mirabegron Extended-Release Tablets Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (Administered Orally Once Daily)
Estimated GFR ^1
Starting Dose
Maximum Dose
eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m ^2
25 mg
50 mg
eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m ^2
25 mg
25 mg
eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73 m ^2or requiring dialysis
Not Recommended
1. Estimated GFR using the modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD) formula

Dosage in Adults with Hepatic Impairment

The recommended dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets (administered orally once daily) in adult patients with hepatic impairment is described in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7)]. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7).

Table 2: Mirabegron Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment (Administered Orally Once Daily)
Hepatic Impairment Classification
Starting Dose
Maximum Dose
Child-Pugh Class A ( Mild hepatic impairment
25 mg
50 mg
Child-Pugh Class B ( Moderate hepatic impairment
25 mg
25 mg
Child-Pugh Class C ( Severe hepatic impairment
Not Recommended

2.5 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment

For pediatric patients 3 years of age and older, select the appropriate product (Mirabegron extended-release tablets and Mirabegron Granules) based on the patient's weight.

Pediatric Patients weighing 35 kg or more with renal or hepatic impairment: Use Mirabegron Extended-Release Tablets

Dosage in Pediatric Patients with Renal Impairment

The recommended dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets in pediatric patients with renal impairment weighing 35 kg or more (administered orally once daily) is described in Table 1 (above). Note that the dosage is the same as for adult patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.7).

Dosage in Pediatric Patients with Hepatic Impairment

The recommended dosage of mirabegron extended-release tablets in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment weighing 35 kg or more (administered orally once daily) is described in Table 2 (above). Note that the dosage is the same as for adult patients with hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.7).

2.7 Administration Instructions

Mirabegron extended-release tablets

Adult patients:Swallow mirabegron extended-release tablets whole with water. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with or without food.

Pediatric patients:Swallow mirabegron extended-release tablets whole with water. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with food [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] .

2.8 Missed Dose

Instruct patients to take any missed doses as soon as they remember, unless more than 12 hours have passed since the missed dose. If more than 12 hours have passed, the missed dose can be skipped, and the next dose should be taken at the usual time.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Extended-release tablets: 25 mg and 50 mg ( 3)

Mirabegron extended-release tablets are supplied in two different strengths as described below:

50 mg yellow colored, oval shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablets debossed with "1160" on one side and plain on other side.