2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Recommended starting oral dosage is 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily. (2.2)
If well-tolerated, increase the total daily dosage in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day to achieve a target dosage of 150 mg to 225 mg twice per day by the end of two weeks (2.2).
Subsequently may increase the dosage in increments up to 100 mg once or twice weekly (2.2).
Maximum daily dosage is 450 mg twice daily (2.2).
Administer with or without food (2.2).
See the dosage modifications based on ANC results and recommended frequency of ANC testing in the full prescribing information (2.3, 2.4).
See recommendations for discontinuing clozapine tablets treatment (2.5), restarting clozapine tablets after interrupting dosing (2.6), dosage modifications for drug interactions (2.7), dosage recommendations in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (2.8) in the full prescribing information.

2.1 Absolute Neutrophil Count Testing Prior to Clozapine Tablets Initiation

Prior to initiating clozapine tablets treatment, obtain a baseline absolute neutrophil count (ANC). Clozapine tablets initiation is not recommended in patients with an ANC less than 1500/μL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

For patients with documented Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count), obtain at least two baseline ANC levels. Clozapine tablets initiation is not recommended in patients with BEN with an ANC less than 1000/μL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

For dosage modifications based on ANC results, see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4) .

2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration

To reduce the risk of orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope, the recommended starting dosage is much lower than the target dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

Clozapine tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The recommended starting oral dosage of clozapine tablets is 12.5 mg once or twice daily. If well-tolerated, increase the total daily dose in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day to achieve a target dosage of 150 mg to 225 mg twice per day by the end of two weeks. Subsequently, may increase the dosage in increments of up to 100 mg once weekly or twice weekly. The maximum recommended clozapine tablets oral dosage is 450 mg twice daily.

2.3 Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results

Table 1 provides recommended clozapine tablets dosage modifications based on ANC results [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. For dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count), see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)].

Table 1. Clozapine Tablets Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results and Frequency of ANC Testing

^1 Confirm all initial reports of ANC less than 1500/μL with a repeat ANC measurement within 24 hours
Recommended Dosage
Modification
Recommended Frequency of ANC Testing During Clozapine Tablets Treatment
ANC Within Normal Range (≥ 1500/μL)
No dosage modification;
continue treatment

Day 1 to Month 6: Weekly
Month 7 to Month 12: Every 2 weeks
Month 13 and thereafter: Every month

If clozapine tablets treatment is reinitiated after a dosage interruption (e.g., patient had neutropenia which required dosage interruption and now has a normal ANC level) for:

< 30 days, continue the previous ANC testing frequency
≥ 30 days, obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients who initiate treatment

Mild Neutropenia (ANC between 1000 to 1499/μL)^1
No dosage modification;
continue treatment

Three times weekly
Once ANC ≥ 1500/μL, recommend returning to the patient’s last Normal Range ANC testing frequency

Moderate Neutropenia (ANC between 500 to 999/μL)^1

Interrupt treatment and recommend hematology consultation
Resume treatment once ANC ≥1000/μL

Daily
Once ANC ≥ 1000/μL, three times weekly
Once ANC ≥ 1500/μL, test weekly for 4 weeks. If ANC ≥ 1500/μL after monitoring weekly for 4 weeks, return to the patient’s last Normal Range ANC testing frequency

Severe Neutropenia (ANC less than 500/μL)^1
Discontinue treatment and
recommend hematology
consultation

Daily
Once ANC ≥ 1000/μL, three times weekly
Once ANC ≥ 1500/μL, if the benefits outweigh the risks of restarting treatment, resume treatment and obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients who initiate treatment

2.4 Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results for Patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia

Table 2 provides recommended clozapine tablets dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. For dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients without BEN, see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].

Table 2. Clozapine Tablets Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results and Frequency of ANC Testing in Patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia^1

^1 Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) is also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count.
^2 Confirm all initial reports of ANC less than 1500/μL with a repeat ANC measurement within 24 hours.
Recommended Dosage
Modification
Recommended Frequency of ANC Testing During Clozapine Tablets Treatment in Patients with BEN
ANC Within the Normal Range for Patients with BEN (≥ 1000/μL )
No dosage modification; continue treatment

Day 1 to Month 6: Weekly
Month 7 to Month 12: Every 2 weeks
Month 13 and thereafter: Monthly

If clozapine tablets treatment is reinitiated after a dosage interruption (e.g., patient had neutropenia which required dosage interruption and now their ANC (≥ 1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s ANC baseline prior to treatment) for:

< 30 days, continue previous ANC testing frequency
≥ 30 days, obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients with BEN who initiate treatment

Neutropenia in Patients with BEN (ANC level between 500 to 999/μL)^2

Recommend hematology consultation
No dosage modification; continue treatment

Three times weekly
Once ANC ≥ 1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s ANC baseline, obtain ANC tests weekly for 4 weeks
If ANC ≥1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s baseline after monitoring for 4 weeks, return to the patient’s last Normal ANC Range testing frequency for patients with BEN

Severe Neutropenia in Patients with BEN (ANC level less than 500/μL)^2
Discontinue treatment and recommend hematology consultation

Daily
Once ANC ≥ 500/μL, obtain ANC three times weekly
Once ANC ≥ 1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s baseline, if the benefits outweigh the risks of restarting treatment, resume treatment and obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients with BEN who initiate treatment

2.5 Discontinuation of Clozapine Tablets Treatment

If discontinuing clozapine tablets in patients with:

Moderate or severe neutropenia, see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
Normal or mild neutropenia, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks, and continue monitoring ANC levels until their ANC is ≥1500/μL.

If discontinuing clozapine tablets in patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count) with:

Neutropenia, see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)].
ANC within their normal range of ANC reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks.

When discontinuing clozapine tablets, monitor patients for the symptoms related to psychotic recurrence and cholinergic rebound (e.g., profuse sweating, headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea).

2.6 Restarting Clozapine Tablets Treatment After Interrupting Clozapine Tablets

When restarting clozapine tablets in patients who have interrupted clozapine tablets treatment, use a lower dosage to minimize the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

If one day’s dosage is missed, resume clozapine tablets treatment at 40% to 50% of the previous dosage.
If two days of dosing is missed, resume clozapine tablets treatment at approximately 25% of the previous dosage.
For longer interruptions, restart clozapine tablets treatment with a dosage of 12.5 mg once or twice daily. If this dosage is well-tolerated, may increase the dosage to the previous dosage more quickly than recommended than for initial clozapine tablets treatment.

2.7 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions

See Table 3 for recommended dosage modifications to reduce the risk of clozapine tablets-associated adverse reactions or reduce the risk of lower effectiveness [ see Drug Interactions (7)].

Table 3. Clozapine Tablets Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions

Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors
Administer one third of the clozapine tablets dosage.
Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors
Consider reducing the clozapine tablets dosage if necessary.
CYP2D6 or CYP3A4
Inhibitors
Strong CYP3A4 Inducers
Concomitant use is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is necessary, it may be necessary to increase the clozapine tablets dosage. Monitor for decreased effectiveness.
Moderate or weak CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 Inducers
Consider increasing the clozapine tablets dosage if necessary.

2.8 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment, or CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers

It may be necessary to reduce the clozapine tablets dosage in patients with significant renal impairment or hepatic impairment, or in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) ].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Clozapine Tablets USP, 25 mg are pale yellow colored, round, flat faced, bevel edged uncoated tablets debossed with ‘C facilitated scoreline (functional) C’ on one side and ‘54’ on the other side.
Clozapine Tablets USP, 50 mg are pale yellow colored, round, flat faced, bevel edged uncoated tablets debossed with ‘C facilitated scoreline (functional) C’ on one side and ‘55’ on the other side.
Clozapine Tablets USP, 100 mg are pale yellow colored, round, flat faced, bevel edged uncoated tablets debossed with ‘C facilitated scoreline (functional) C’ on one side and ‘57’ on the other side.
Clozapine Tablets USP, 200 mg are pale yellow colored, oval shaped, uncoated tablets debossed with ‘C scoreline (functional) C’ on one side and ‘71’ on the other side.

25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg and 200 mg tablets with score on one side (3)