2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 160 mg once daily. ( 2.2)
Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 54 mg to 160 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 160 mg. ( 2.3)
Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 54 mg once daily. ( 2.4)
Geriatric patients: Select the dose on the basis of renal function. ( 2.5)
Should be given with meals. ( 2.1)

2.1 General Considerations

Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablets and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablets. Fenofibrate tablets should be given with meals, thereby optimizing the bioavailability of the medication.

The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcoholic intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be addressed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia, such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy, thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, are sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia.

Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of fenofibrate tablets if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range.

Therapy should be withdrawn in patients who do not have an adequate response after two months of treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 160 mg once daily.

2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia

The initial dose of fenofibrate tablet is 160 mg once daily.

2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia

The initial dose is 54 mg per day to 160 mg per day. Dosage should be individualized according to patient response and should be adjusted if necessary following repeat lipid determinations at 4 to 8 week intervals. The maximum dose is 160 mg once daily.

2.4 Impaired Renal Function

Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dose of 54 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of fenofibrate tablets should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

2.5 Geriatric Patients

Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Fenofibrate tablets USP, 54 mgare yellow, film-coated, oval shape tablets debossed with “G” on one side and “351” on the other side.
Fenofibrate tablets USP, 160 mgare white to off-white, film-coated, modified capsule shaped tablets, debossed with “G352” on one side and plain on the other side.

Oral Tablets: 54 mg and 160 mg. ( 3)