2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Take orally with or without food, at any time of day. (2.1)

Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary. (2.1)

Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. (2.1)

Pediatric Patients with HeFH: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. (2.2)

Pediatric Patients with HoFH: Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. (2.2)

Asian Patients: Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Consider risks and benefits of treatment if not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily. (2.4)

Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis): Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. (2.5)

See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin tablets dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions (2.6)

2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information

Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. Swallow the tablets whole.
Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary.
If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. Resume treatment with the next dose.
When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] .

2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients

The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily.
The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events.

2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients

Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH
The recommended dosage range is 5 mg to 10 mg orally once daily in patients aged 8 years to less than 10 years and 5 mg to 20 mg orally once daily in patients aged 10 years and older.

Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 Years of Age and Older with HoFH
The recommended dosage is 20 mg orally once daily .

2.4 Dosing in Asian Patients

Initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.8), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment

In patients with severe renal impairment (CL _cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m ^2) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] .

There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment.

2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions

Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1)].

Table 1: Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions

Concomitantly Used Drug

Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications

Cyclosporine

Do not exceed 5 mg once daily.

Teriflunomide

Do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

Enasidenib

Do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

Capmatinib

Do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

Fostamatinib

Do not exceed 20 mg once daily.

Febuxostat

Do not exceed 20 mg once daily.

Gemfibrozil

Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

Tafamidis

Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 20 mg once daily.

Antiviral Medications

Sofbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir
Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir

Concomitant use not recommended.

Simeprevir
Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/Grazoprevir
Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir
Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir
Atazanavir/Ritonavir
Lopinavir/Ritonavir

Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

Darolutamide

Do not exceed 5 mg once daily.

Regorafenib

Do not exceed 10 mg once daily.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Rosuvastatin tablets, USP:

5 mg of rosuvastatin: Pink, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets debossed with ‘I’ on one side and ‘29’ on the other side.
10 mg of rosuvastatin: Pink, round, biconvex film-coated tablets debossed with ‘I’ on one side and ‘30’ on the other side.
20 mg of rosuvastatin: Pink, round, biconvex film-coated tablets debossed with ‘I’ on one side and ‘31’ on the other side.
40 mg of rosuvastatin: Pink, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets debossed with ‘I’ on one side and ‘32’ on the other side.

Tablets: 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, and 40 mg (3)