2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (2.1)

Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis

Naproxen tablets

250 mg (one-half tablet) 500 mg

twice daily

Naproxen sodium tablets

275 mg (one-half tablet) 550 mg

twice daily

The dose may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. In patients who tolerate lower doses well, the dose may be increased to naproxen 1500 mg/ day for up to 6 months.

Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Naproxen tablets may not allow for the flexible dose titration needed in pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. A liquid formulation may be more appropriate. Recommended total daily dose of naproxen is approximately 10 mg/kg given in 2 divided doses. Dosing with naproxen tablets is not appropriate for children weighing less than 50 kilograms.

Management of Pain, Primary Dysmenorrhea, and Acute Tendonitis and Bursitis
Recommended starting dose 550 mg of naproxen sodium as naproxen sodium followed by 550 mg every 12 hours or 275 mg every 6 to 8 hours as required. The initial total daily dose should not exceed 1375 mg of naproxen sodium. Thereafter, the total daily dose should not exceed 1100 mg of naproxen sodium. Naproxen sodium tablets are recommended for the management of acute painful conditions when prompt onset of pain relief is desired.

Acute Gout
Recommended starting dose 750 mg of naproxen tablets followed by 250 mg every 8 hours until the attack has subsided. Naproxen sodium tablets may also be used at a starting dose of 825 mg followed by 275 mg every 8 hours.

2.1 General Dosing Instructions

Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)].

After observing the response to initial therapy with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs.

Naproxen-containing products such as naproxen and naproxen sodium tablets, and other naproxen products should not be used concomitantly since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion.

2.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis and Ankylosing Spondylitis

The recommended dosages of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are shown in Table 1.

Table 1: Recommended dosages for naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets

Naproxen tablets

250 mg (one half tablet)

500 mg

twice daily

Naproxen sodium tablets

275 mg (one half tablet)

550 mg (naproxen 500 mg with 50 mg sodium)

twice daily

During long-term administration, the dose of naproxen may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. A lower daily dose may suffice for long-term administration.

The morning and evening doses do not have to be equal in size and administration of the drug more frequently than twice daily does not generally make a difference in response.

In patients who tolerate lower doses well, the dose may be increased to naproxen 1500 mg/day for limited periods of up to 6 months when a higher level of anti-inflammatory/analgesic activity is required. When treating such patients with naproxen 1500 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefits to offset the potential increased risk.

2.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis

Naproxen solid-oral dosage forms may not allow for the flexible dose titration needed in pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. A liquid formulation may be more appropriate for weight-based dosing and due to the need for dose flexibility in children.

In pediatric patients, doses of 5 mg/kg/day produced plasma levels of naproxen similar to those seen in adults taking 500 mg of naproxen [see Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. The recommended total daily dose of naproxen is approximately 10 mg/kg given in 2 divided doses. Dosing with naproxen tablets is not appropriate for children weighing less than 50 kilograms.

2.4 Management of Pain, Primary Dysmenorrhea, and Acute Tendonitis and Bursitis

The recommended starting dose of naproxen sodium tablets is 550 mg followed by 550 mg every 12 hours or 275 mg (one half of a 550 mg tablet) every 6 to 8 hours as required. The initial total daily dose should not exceed 1375 mg (two and one-half tablets) of naproxen sodium. Thereafter, the total daily dose should not exceed 1100 mg of naproxen sodium. Because the sodium salt of naproxen is more rapidly absorbed, naproxen sodium tablets is recommended for the management of acute painful conditions when prompt onset of pain relief is desired. Naproxen tablets may also be used. The recommended starting dose of naproxen tablets is 500 mg followed by 250 mg (one half of a 500 mg naproxen tablet) every 6 to 8 hours as required. The total daily dose should not exceed 1250 mg of naproxen.

2.5 Acute Gout

The recommended starting dose is 750 mg (one and one-half tablets) of naproxen tablets followed by 250 mg (one-half tablet) every 8 hours until the attack has subsided. Naproxen sodium tablets may also be used at a starting dose of 825 mg (one and one-half tablets) followed by 275 mg (one-half tablet) every 8 hours.

2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Naproxen

Different dose strengths and formulations (e.g., tablets, suspension) of naproxen are not interchangeable. This difference should be taken into consideration when changing strengths or formulations.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Naproxen Tablets, USP, 250 mg: circular, light orange colored, flat, uncoated tablets, engraved with ‘G’ and ‘32’ on either side of a break line on one side and ‘250’ on the other side.

Naproxen Tablets, USP, 375 mg: oval, light orange colored, biconvex, uncoated tablets, engraved with ‘G32’ on one side and ‘375’ on the other side.

Naproxen Tablets, USP, 500 mg: capsule shaped, light orange colored, uncoated tablets, debossed with ‘G’ and ‘32’ on either side of a break line on one side and ‘500’ on the other side.

Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, 275 mg: blue, oval, film-coated tablets with ‘G 0’ engraved on one side and ‘275’ on the other side.

Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, 550 mg: blue colored, modified capsule shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablets, engraved with ‘G’ and ‘0’ on either side of a break line and a break line on the other side.

Naproxen Tablets, USP: 250 mg, 375 mg & 500 mg
Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP: 275 mg, 550 mg