2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

CAD or PAD:2.5 mg orally twice daily with or without food, in combination with aspirin (75 to 100 mg) once daily ( 2.1)

2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults

Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adults

Indication
Renal Considerations ^*
Dosage
Food/Timing ^†
Reduction of Risk of Major Cardiovascular Events (CV Death, MI, and Stroke) in CAD
No dose adjustment needed based on CrCl
2.5 mg twice daily, plus aspirin (75 to 100 mg) once daily 	Take with or without food
Reduction of Risk of Major Thrombotic Vascular Events in PAD, Including Patients after Lower Extremity Revascularization due to Symptomatic PAD
No dose adjustment needed based on CrCl
2.5 mg twice daily, plus aspirin (75 to 100 mg) once daily.
When starting therapy after a successful lower extremity revascularization procedure, initiate once hemostasis has been established.
Take with or without food

^* Calculate CrCl based on actual weight. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6)]

^† [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]

2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients

Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)].

2.3 Switching to and from Rivaroxaban

Switching from Warfarin to R ivaroxaban - When switching patients from warfarin to rivaroxaban, discontinue warfarin and start rivaroxaban as soon as the International Normalized Ratio (INR) is below 3.0 in adults patients to avoid periods of inadequate anticoagulation.

Switching from Rivaroxaban to Warfarin –

Adults:

No clinical trial data are available to guide converting patients from rivaroxaban to warfarin. Rivaroxaban affects INR, so INR measurements made during co-administration with warfarin may not be useful for determining the appropriate dose of warfarin. One approach is to discontinue rivaroxaban and begin both a parenteral anticoagulant and warfarin at the time the next dose of rivaroxaban would have been taken.
Once rivaroxaban is discontinued, INR testing may be done reliably 24 hours after the last dose.
Switching from Rivaroxaban to Anticoagulants other than Warfarin -For adult and pediatric patients currently taking rivaroxaban and transitioning to an anticoagulant with rapid onset, discontinue rivaroxaban and give the first dose of the other anticoagulant (oral or parenteral) at the time that the next rivaroxaban dose would have been taken [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4)] .
Switching from Anticoagulants other than Warfarin to Rivaroxaban -For adult patients currently receiving an anticoagulant other than warfarin, start rivaroxaban 0 to 2 hours prior to the next scheduled administration of the drug (e.g., low molecular weight heparin or non-warfarin oral anticoagulant) and omit administration of the other anticoagulant. For unfractionated heparin being administered by continuous infusion, stop the infusion and start rivaroxaban at the same time.

2.4 Discontinuation for Surgery and other Interventions

If anticoagulation must be discontinued to reduce the risk of bleeding with surgical or other procedures, rivaroxaban should be stopped at least 24 hours before the procedure to reduce the risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] .In deciding whether a procedure should be delayed until 24 hours after the last dose of rivaroxaban, the increased risk of bleeding should be weighed against the urgency of intervention. Rivaroxaban should be restarted after the surgical or other procedures as soon as adequate hemostasis has been established, noting that the time to onset of therapeutic effect is short [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)] .If oral medication cannot be taken during or after surgical intervention, consider administering a parenteral anticoagulant.

2.5 Missed Dose

Adults

For patients receiving 2.5 mg twice daily: if a dose is missed, the patient should take a single 2.5 mg rivaroxaban dose as recommended at the next scheduled time.

On the following day, the patient should continue with their regular regimen.

2.6 Administration Options

For adult patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and mixed with applesauce immediately prior to use and administered orally. Administration with food is not required for the 2.5 mg tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] .
Administration of rivaroxaban tablets via nasogastric (NG) tube or gastric feeding tube:After confirming gastric placement of the tube, rivaroxaban tablets (all strengths) may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via an NG tube or gastric feeding tube. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of drug release, avoid administration of rivaroxaban tablets distal to the stomach which can result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced drug exposure. After the administration of a crushed rivaroxaban 15 mg or 20 mg tablet, the dose should then be immediately followed by enteral feeding. Enteral feeding is not required following administration of the 2.5 mg or 10 mg tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in applesauce for up to 4 hours. An in vitrocompatibility study indicated that there is no adsorption of rivaroxaban from a water suspension of a crushed rivaroxaban tablet to PVC or silicone nasogastric (NG) tubing.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

2.5 mg tablets: Round, light yellow, biconvex, film-coated tablets with engraving 2.5 on one side and plain other side.

Tablets: 2.5 mg ( 3)