2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Indication

Recommended Adult () and Pediatric Dosage ()

Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer

20 mg once daily for 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks (2.1)

H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence

Triple Therapy:

Omeprazole

20 mg

Each drug twice daily for 10 days (2.1) ^1

Amoxicillin

1000 mg

Clarithromycin

500 mg

Dual Therapy:

Omeprazole

40 mg once daily for 14 days ^2

Clarithromycin

500 mg three times daily for 14 days (2.1)

Active Benign Gastric Ulcer

40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks (2.1)

Symptomatic GERD

20 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks (2.1) See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older (2.2)

EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD

20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks (2.1) ^3 See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older (2.2)

Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD

20 mg once daily (2.1) ^3

See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older (2.2)

Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions

Starting dose is 60 mg once daily (varies with individual patient, see full prescribing information) as long as clinically indicated (2.1)

1. if ulcer present, continue Omeprazole 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days.

2. if ulcer present, continue Omeprazole 20 mg once daily for an additional 14 days.

3. an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given if no response; if recurrence additional 4 to 8 week courses may be considered.

4. studied for 12 months. Reduce the dosage to 10 mg once daily for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, or C) and Asian patients (, )

2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage Regimen by Indication

Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of omeprazole in adult patients by indication.

Table 1: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole in Adults by Indication

Indication

Dosage of Omeprazole

Treatment Duration

Treatment of Active Duodenal
Ulcer

20 mg once daily

4 weeks ^1

Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence

Triple Therapy
Omeprazole 20 mg
Amoxicillin 1000 mg
Clarithromycin 500 mg
Take all three drugs twice daily

10 days
In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, continue omeprazole 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days for ulcer healing and symptom relief.

Dual Therapy
Omeprazole 40 mg once daily Clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily

14 days
In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 14 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief.

Active Benign Gastric Ulcer

40 mg once daily

4 to 8 weeks

Treatment of Symptomatic GERD

20 mg once daily

Up to 4 weeks

Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD

20 mg once daily

4 to 8 weeks ^2

Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD

20 mg once daily ^3

Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months.

Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions

Starting dose is 60 mg once daily;
adjust to patient needs
Daily dosages of greater than 80 mg should be administered in divided doses.
Dosages up to 120 mg three times
daily have been administered.

As long as clinically indicated.
Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for more than 5 years.

^1 Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks of therapy to achieve healing

^2 The efficacy of omeprazole used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole may be considered.

^3 Dosage reduction to 10 mg once daily is recommended for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B or C) and Asian patients when used for the maintenance of healing of EE [see Use in Specific Populations (, ) and Clinical Pharmacology (, )].

2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage Regimen by Indication

Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of omeprazole in pediatric patients by indication.

Table 2: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole in Pediatric Patients by Indication

Indication

Omeprazole Dosage Regimen and Duration

Patient Age

Weight-Based Dose (mg)

Regimen and Duration

Treatment of Symptomatic GERD

2 to 16 years

10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg

Once daily for up to 4 weeks

20 kg and greater: 20 mg

Treatment of EE due to Acid- Mediated GERD

2 to 16 years

10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg

Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ^1

20 kg and greater: 20 mg

Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD

2 to 16 years

10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg

Once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months

20 kg and greater: 20 mg

^1 The efficacy of omeprazole used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole may be considered.

2.3 Administration Instructions

•

Take omeprazole delayed-release capsules before meals.

•

Antacids may be used concomitantly with omeprazole delayed-release capsules.

•

Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose.

Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules

•

Swallow omeprazole delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew.

•

For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, omeprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered as follows:

o

Place one tablespoon of applesauce into a clean container (e.g., empty bowl). The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing.

o

Open the capsule.

o

Carefully empty all of the pellets inside the capsule on the applesauce.

o

Mix the pellets with the applesauce.

o

Swallow applesauce and pellets immediately with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets. Do not chew or crush the pellets. Do not save the applesauce and pellets for future use.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules, USP 10 mg are size ‘3’ two piece hard gelatin capsules with a light blue to blue body with “G” imprinted in black ink and an orange cap with “G230” imprinted in black ink. The capsules are filled with white to off-white pellets.

Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules, USP 20 mg are size ‘2’ two piece hard gelatin capsules with a light blue to blue body with “G” imprinted in black ink and a light blue to blue cap with “G231” imprinted in black ink. The capsules are filled with white to off-white pellets.

Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules, USP 40 mg are size ‘1’ two piece hard gelatin capsules with an orange body with ‘G’ imprinted in black ink and a light blue to blue cap with ‘G232’ imprinted in black ink. The capsules are filled with white to off-white pellets.

•

Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules: 10 mg, 20 mg and 40 mg ()