2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information

Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. Do not combine two dosage forms to achieve the total dose. The systemic exposure to valsartan (AUC) is 60% higher with the suspension compared to tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

Use of the oral suspension is recommended:

in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years
in patients >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and
in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan tablets.

When switching between suspension and tablets, the dose of valsartan may need to be adjusted.

Preparation of Suspension (for 160 mL of a 4 mg/mL suspension)

Add 80 mL of Ora-Plus®* oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 valsartan tablets 80 mg and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes.
Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour.
After the standing time, shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute.
Add 80 mL of Ora-Sweet SF®* oral sweetening vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension for at least 10 seconds to disperse the ingredients.
The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature (below 30°C/86°F) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/35°F to 46°F) in the glass bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure.
Shake the bottle well (at least 10 seconds) prior to dispensing the suspension.

*Ora-Sweet SF® and Ora-Plus® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc.

2.2 Adult Hypertension

The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose. Valsartan tablets may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily, administered once a day.

The antihypertensive effect is substantially present within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks. If additional antihypertensive effect is required over the starting dose range, the dose may be increased to a maximum of 320 mg or a diuretic may be added. Addition of a diuretic has a greater effect than dose increases beyond 80 mg.

Valsartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents.

2.3 Pediatric Hypertension 1 to 16 Years of Age

The usual recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg once daily (up to 40 mg total). A higher starting dose of 2 mg/kg may be considered in selected cases when a greater reduction of blood pressure is needed. The dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response and tolerability, up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg once daily (maximum daily dose 160 mg).

No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)].

Use of valsartan tablet is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Pediatric Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)].

2.4 Heart Failure

The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 40 mg twice daily. Uptitrate to 80 mg and 160 mg twice daily or to the highest dose tolerated by the patient. Consider reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics. The maximum daily dose administered in clinical trials is 320 mg in divided doses.

2.5 Post-Myocardial Infarction

Valsartan tablets may be initiated as early as 12 hours after a myocardial infarction. The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 20 mg twice daily. Patients may be uptitrated within 7 days to 40 mg twice daily, with subsequent titrations to a target maintenance dose of 160 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. If symptomatic hypotension or renal dysfunction occurs, consider dosage reduction. Valsartan tablets may be given with other standard post-myocardial infarction treatment, including thrombolytics, aspirin, beta-blockers, and statins.

2.6 Missed Dose

If a dose of valsartan tablet is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. The dose should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose.

40 mg are yellow colored, modified capsule shaped film coated tablets debossed with “40”on one side and scored on other side.

80 mg are pale red colored, beveled edged, almond shaped film coated tablets debossed with “80” on one side and “VAL” on other side.

160 mg are grey-orange colored, beveled edge, almond shaped film coated tablets debossed with “160” on one side and “VAL” on other side.

320 mg are dark-grey-violet colored, beveled edge, almond shaped film coated tablets debossed with “320” on one side and “VAL” on other side.