You aren’t treated as members of the same household
if one of you is preparing to leave the household and does
leave no later than 1 month after the date of the payment.

Exception. If you aren’t legally separated under a de-
cree of divorce or separate maintenance, a payment un-
der a written separation agreement, support decree, or
other court order may qualify as alimony even if you’re
members of the same household when the payment is
made.

Liability
for payments after death of recipient
spouse. If any part of payments you make must continue
to be made for any period after your spouse’s death, that
part of your payments isn’t alimony whether made before
or after the death. If all of the payments would continue,
then none of the payments made before or after the death
are alimony.

The divorce or separation instrument doesn’t have to
expressly state that the payments cease upon the death of
your spouse if, for example, the liability for continued pay-
ments would end under state law.

Example. You must pay your former spouse $10,000
in cash each year for 10 years. Your divorce decree states
that the payments will end upon your former spouse’s
death. You must also pay your former spouse or your for-
mer spouse’s estate $20,000 in cash each year for 10
years. The death of your spouse wouldn’t end these pay-
ments under state law.

The $10,000 annual payments may qualify as alimony.
The $20,000 annual payments that don’t end upon your
former spouse’s death aren’t alimony.

Substitute payments. If you must make any pay-
ments in cash or property after your spouse’s death as a
substitute for continuing otherwise qualifying payments
before the death, the otherwise qualifying payments aren’t
alimony. To the extent that your payments begin, acceler-
ate, or increase because of the death of your spouse, oth-
erwise qualifying payments you made may be treated as
payments that weren’t alimony. Whether or not such pay-
ments will be treated as not alimony depends on all the
facts and circumstances.

Example 1. Under your divorce decree, you must pay
your former spouse $30,000 annually. The payments will
stop at the end of 6 years or upon your former spouse’s
death, if earlier.

Your former spouse has custody of your minor children.
The decree provides that if any child is still a minor at your
spouse’s death, you must pay $10,000 annually to a trust
until the youngest child reaches the age of majority. The
trust income and corpus (principal) are to be used for your
children’s benefit.

These facts indicate that the payments to be made after
your former spouse’s death are a substitute for $10,000 of
the $30,000 annual payments. Of each of the $30,000 an-
nual payments, $10,000 isn’t alimony.

Example 2. Under your divorce decree, you must pay
your former spouse $30,000 annually. The payments will
stop at the end of 15 years or upon your former spouse’s

death, if earlier. The decree provides that if your former
spouse dies before the end of the 15-year period, you
must pay the estate the difference between $450,000
($30,000 × 15) and the total amount paid up to that time.
For example, if your spouse dies at the end of the 10th
year, you must pay the estate $150,000 ($450,000 −
$300,000).

These facts indicate that the lump-sum payment to be
made after your former spouse’s death is a substitute for
the full amount of the $30,000 annual payments. None of
the annual payments are alimony. The result would be the
same if the payment required at death were to be discoun-
ted by an appropriate interest factor to account for the pre-
payment.

Child support. A payment that is specifically designated
as child support or treated as specifically designated as
child support under your divorce or separation instrument
isn’t alimony. The amount of child support may vary over
time. Child support payments aren’t deductible by the
payer and aren’t taxable to the payee.

Specifically designated as child support. A pay-
ment will be treated as specifically designated as child
support to the extent that the payment is reduced either:
• On the happening of a contingency relating to your

child, or

• At a time that can be clearly associated with the con-

tingency.

A payment may be treated as specifically designated as
child support even if other separate payments are specifi-
cally designated as child support.

Contingency relating to your child. A contingency
relates to your child if it depends on any event relating to
that child. It doesn’t matter whether the event is certain or
likely to occur. Events relating to your child include the
child’s:
• Becoming employed,
• Dying,
• Leaving the household,
• Leaving school,
• Marrying, or
• Reaching a specified age or income level.

Clearly associated with a contingency. Payments
that would otherwise qualify as alimony are presumed to
be reduced at a time clearly associated with the happen-
ing of a contingency relating to your child only in the fol-
lowing situations.

1. The payments are to be reduced not more than 6

months before or after the date the child will reach 18,
21, or local age of majority.

2. The payments are to be reduced on two or more oc-

casions that occur not more than 1 year before or after
a different one of your children reaches a certain age
from 18 to 24. This certain age must be the same for
each child, but need not be a whole number of years.

Publication 504 (2025)

15