requirement. A vacation or other short absence counts as
time you lived at home (even if you rented out your home
while you were gone).

Separated or divorced taxpayers. If you were separa-
ted or divorced prior to the sale of the home, you can treat
the home as your residence if:

If you become physically or mentally unable to
care for yourself, and you used the residence as your
main home for at least 12 months in the 5 years preceding
the sale or exchange, any time you spent living in a care
facility (such as a nursing home) counts toward your
2-year residence requirement, so long as the facility has a
license from a state or other political entity to care for peo-
ple with your condition.

Eligibility Step 4—Look-Back

Determine whether you meet the look-back require-
ment. If you didn't sell another home during the 2-year
period before the date of sale (or if you did sell another
home during this period but didn't take an exclusion of the
gain earned from it), you meet the look-back requirement.
You may take the exclusion only once during a 2-year pe-
riod.

Eligibility Step 5—Exceptions to the
Eligibility Test

There are some exceptions to the Eligibility Test. If any of
the following situations apply to you, read on to see if they
may affect your qualification. If none of these situations
apply, skip to Step 6.
• A separation or divorce occurred during the ownership
of the home. See Separated or divorced taxpayers.
• The death of a spouse occurred during the ownership

of the home. See Surviving spouses.

• You were a service member during the ownership of

the home. See Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps
personnel.

• The sale involved vacant land. See Vacant land next

to home.

• Your previous home was destroyed or condemned.

See Home destroyed or condemned—considerations
for benefits.

• You owned a remainder interest, meaning the right to
own a home in the future, and you sold that right. See
Remainder interest.

• You acquired or are relinquishing the home in a

like-kind exchange. See Like-kind/1031 exchange.
• You used a portion of the real property, separate from
the living space, for business or rental use, and you
didn’t use any of the separate portion for residential
use for 2 years out of the 5 years leading up to the
sale. See Property Used Partly for Business or Rental.
• You or your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire
property as a vacation home or rental after 2008. See
Business or Rental Use of Home.

• You are a sole or joint owner, and
• Your spouse or former spouse is allowed to live in the
home under a divorce or separation instrument and
uses the home as his or her main home.

For property owned by a spouse or former spouse, the

term “divorce or separation instrument” means:

(a). A decree of divorce or separate maintenance or a
written instrument incident to such a decree;

(b). A written separation agreement; or

(c). A decree not described in (a) that requires a
spouse to make payments for the support or mainte-
nance of the other spouse.
If your home was transferred to you by a spouse or
ex-spouse (whether in connection with a divorce or not),
you can count any time when your spouse owned the
home as time when you owned it. However, you must
meet the residence requirement on your own. If you
owned your home prior to your marriage and after your di-
vorce or separation and your spouse or former spouse
isn’t allowed to live in the home under a divorce or separa-
tion instrument, you can count any time that you owned
the home, solely or jointly with your spouse, as time when
you owned it. However, you must meet the residence re-
quirement on your own.

Surviving spouses. If you are a surviving spouse who
doesn't meet the 2-year ownership and residence require-
ments on your own, consider the following rule. If you
haven’t remarried at the time of the sale, then you may in-
clude any time when your late spouse owned and lived in
the home, even if without you, to meet the ownership and
residence requirements.

Also, you may be able to increase your exclusion
amount from $250,000 to $500,000. You may take the
higher exclusion if you meet all of the following conditions.

1. You sell your home within 2 years of the death of your

spouse.

2. You haven’t remarried at the time of the sale.

3. Neither you nor your late spouse took the exclusion
on another home sold less than 2 years before the
date of the current home sale.

4. You meet the 2-year ownership and residence re-
quirements (including your late spouse‘s times of
ownership and residence, if applicable).

Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps personnel. If
you or your spouse are a member of the Uniformed Serv-
ices or the Foreign Service, an employee of the intelli-
gence community of the United States, or an employee,
enrolled volunteer or volunteer leader of the Peace Corps,
you may choose to suspend the 5-year test period for
ownership and residence when you’re on qualified official
extended duty. This means you may be able to meet the
2-year residence test even if, because of your service, you

4

Publication 523 (2025)
didn’t actually live in your home for at least the 2 years
during the 5-year period ending on the date of sale. Make
the election by filing your tax return for the year of the sale
or exchange of your main home, and exclude the gain
from your taxable income.

Qualified extended duty. You are on qualified exten-

ded duty if:

• You are called or ordered to active duty for an indefi-
nite period or for a definite period of more than 90
days.

• You are serving at a duty station at least 50 miles from
your main home, or you are living in government quar-
ters under government orders.

• You are one of the following:

1. A member of the armed forces (Army, Navy, Air

Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, Coast Guard);

2. A member of the commissioned corps of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) or the Public Health Service;

3. A Foreign Service chief of mission, ambassa-

dor-at-large, or officer;

4. A member of the Senior Foreign Service or the

Foreign Service personnel;

5. An employee, enrolled volunteer, or enrolled vol-

unteer leader of the Peace Corps serving outside
the United States; or

6. An employee of the intelligence community,

meaning:

a. The Office of the Director of National Intelli-
gence, the Central Intelligence Agency, the
National Security Agency, the Defense Intelli-
gence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelli-
gence Agency, or the National Reconnais-
sance Office;

b. Any other office within the Department of De-
fense for the collection of specialized national
intelligence through reconnaissance pro-
grams;

c. Any of the intelligence elements of the Army,

Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Federal Bureau
of Investigation, Department of the Treasury,
Department of Energy, and Coast Guard;

d. The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of

the Department of State; or

e. Any of the elements of the Department of

Homeland Security concerned with the analy-
ses of foreign intelligence information.

Period of suspension. The period of suspension
can’t last more than 10 years. Together, the 10-year sus-
pension period and the 5-year test period can be as long
as, but no more than, 15 years. You can’t suspend the
5-year period for more than one property at a time. You
can revoke your choice to suspend the 5-year period at
any time.

Example 1. You bought a home on May 1, 2008. You
used it as your main home until August 27, 2011. On Au-
gust 28, 2011, you went on qualified official extended duty
with the Navy. You didn’t live in the house again before
selling it on August 1, 2024. You choose to use the entire
10-year suspension period. Therefore, the suspension pe-
riod would extend back from August 1, 2024, to August 2,
2014, and the 5-year test period would extend back to Au-
gust 2, 2009. During that period, you owned the house all
5 years and lived in it as your main home from August 2,
2009, until August 28, 2011, a period of more than 24
months. You meet the ownership and use tests because
you owned and lived in the home for at least 2 years dur-
ing this test period.

Example 2. You bought and moved into a home in
2016. You lived in it as your main home for 3^1/2 years. For
the next 6 years, you didn’t live in it because you were on
qualified official extended duty with the Army. You then
sold the home at a gain in 2025. To meet the use test, you
choose to suspend the 5-year test period for the 6 years
you were on qualified official extended duty. This means
you can disregard those 6 years. Therefore, your 5-year
test period consists of the 5 years before you went on
qualified official extended duty. You meet the ownership
and use tests because you owned and lived in the home
for 3^1/2 years during this test period.

Vacant land next to home. You can include the sale of
vacant land adjacent to the land on which your home sits
as part of a sale of your home if ALL of the following are
true.
• You owned and used the vacant land as part of your

home.

• The sale of the vacant land and the sale of your home

occurred within 2 years of each other.

• Both sales either meet the Eligibility Test or qualify for

partial tax benefits, as described earlier.

Also, if your sale of vacant land meets all these require-
ments, you must treat that sale and the sale of your home
as a single transaction for tax purposes, meaning that you
may apply the exclusion only once.

Note: However, if you move your home from the land
on which it stood (meaning you relocate the actual physi-
cal structure), then that land no longer counts as part of
your home. For example, if you move a mobile home to a
new lot and sell the old lot, then you can’t treat the sale of
the old lot as the sale of your home.

Home destroyed or condemned—considerations for
benefits. If an earlier home of yours was destroyed or
condemned, you may be able to count your time there to-
ward the ownership and residence test.

If your home was destroyed, see Pub. 547, Casualties,
Disasters, or Thefts. If your home was condemned, see
Pub. 544, Sales and Other Disposition of Assets.

Publication 523 (2025)

5
Pub. 544 for more information about depreciation recap-
ture.

See Determine any depreciation amounts you may

need to recapture, later, for more detail.

Example. Cartier owned and used a house as a main
home from 2017 through 2020. On January 1, 2021, Cart-
ier moved to another state. Cartier rented the home from
that date until April 30, 2023, when Cartier sold it. During
the 5-year period ending on the date of sale (May 1,
2018–April 30, 2023), Cartier owned and lived in the
house for more than 2 years. Because the period of non-
qualified use doesn’t include any part of the 5-year period
after the last date Cartier lived in the home, there is no pe-

riod of nonqualified use. Because Cartier met the owner-
ship and use tests, Cartier can exclude gain up to
$250,000. However, Cartier can’t exclude the part of the
gain equal to the depreciation Cartier claimed or could
have claimed for renting the house.

Worksheet 3 is used to help you figure taxable gain on
the sale or exchange of your home (if any) and how to re-
port it.

Tip: If you completed “Business or Rental” and “Home”
versions of your gain/loss worksheet, as described in
Property Used Partly for Business or Rental, earlier, com-
plete Worksheet 3 only for the “Home” version.

Worksheet 3. Determine if You Have Taxable Gain

If you completed “Business or Rental” and “Home” versions of your gain/loss worksheet, as described in Property
Used Partly for Business or Rental, earlier, complete Worksheet 3 only for the “Home” version. However, the section 121
exclusion is reduced to the extent of any depreciation adjustments in connection with the business use of your residence.
Worksheet 2 allocated a separate portion of the property used for Business or Rental, if any, to figure the amount of gain
potentially excluded under section 121. Worksheet 3 helps you figure how much of the gain calculated in Worksheet 2 will
be excluded under section 121 based, in part, on whether you, your spouse, or a former spouse used the entire property
as your principal residence or for another purpose, for example, for rental use or as a second home or a vacation home.

Section A. Depreciation. Determine your net gain. Complete this section only if you used all or part of your
home for business or rental purposes between May 7, 1997, and the date of sale. Otherwise, skip to Section
B.

Step 1

Step 2

Step 3

Enter your gain from line 7 of Worksheet 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

List the total of all depreciation deductions that you took or could have taken
for the use of all or part of your home for business or rental purposes
between May 7, 1997, and the date of sale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Subtract the sum of Step 2 from the amount listed in Section A, Step 1. This
is your net gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Section B. Determine your nonqualified use gain. Complete this section only if the following apply: a) During
the time you owned the property there were periods of nonqualified use when neither you nor your spouse
(or your former spouse) used the entire property as your main home; b) the periods of nonqualified use
occurred after 2008; c) the periods of nonqualified use occurred before the last day the entire property was
used as your or your spouse’s (or your former spouse) main home prior to the date of sale. Do not include
any period of nonqualified use that occurred after the last day that you or your spouse (or former spouse)
used the entire property as your main home during the 5-year period prior to the date of sale.* Otherwise,
skip to Section C.

*Note: If the period of nonuse was 1) for an aggregate of 2 years or less and due to a change in employment, a health
condition, or other “unforeseen circumstance” described in Does Your Home Qualify for a Partial Exclusion of Gain,
earlier; or 2) for 10 years or less and due to a “stop the clock” exception for certain military, intelligence, and Peace
Corps personnel described in Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps Personnel, earlier, then you may skip Section B.

Step 1

Step 2

Step 3

Step 4

Step 5

Enter the amount from Section A, Step 3, or, if you skipped Section A, your
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
gain from line 7 of Worksheet 2, earlier

Enter the total number of days after 2008 and before the date of sale that
neither you nor your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire home as a
main residence. Do not include any days that occurred after the last day that
you or your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire property as your main
home during the 5-year period prior to the date of sale. This number is your
nonuse days . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Enter the total number of days you owned your home (counting all days, not
just days after 2008). This number is your number of days owned . . . . . . . . . .

Divide the nonuse days by the days owned. This number is your
nonresidence factor

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Multiply the decimal from Section B, Step 4, by the amount listed in Section
B, Step 1. This number is your nonqualified use gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Section C. Determine your gain that is eligible for exclusion.

Publication 523 (2025)

19