Required statement. If you receive a tax-free housing
allowance and have real estate tax or home mortgage in-
terest expenses, attach a statement to your tax return. The
statement must contain all of the following information.
• The amount of each type of tax-free income you re-
ceived, such as a tax-free housing allowance or
tax-free representation allowance.

• The amount of otherwise deductible expenses attrib-

utable to each type of tax-free income.

• The amount attributable to each type of tax-free in-

come that was not directly attributable to that type of
tax-free income.

• An explanation of how you determined the amounts
not directly attributable to each type of tax-free in-
come.

The statement must also indicate that none of the
amounts deducted on your return are in any way attributa-
ble to tax-free income.

Foreign Taxes

If you pay or accrue taxes to a foreign government, you
generally can choose to either claim them as a credit
against your U.S. income tax liability or deduct them as an
itemized deduction when figuring your taxable income.

Do not include the foreign taxes paid or accrued
as withheld income taxes on your Form 1040.

Foreign tax credit. Your foreign tax credit is subject to a
limit based on your taxable income from foreign sources. If
you choose to figure a credit against your U.S. tax liability
for the foreign taxes, you generally must complete Form
1116 and attach it to your U.S. tax return.

You cannot claim a credit for foreign taxes paid on
amounts excluded from gross income under the foreign
earned income or housing exclusions. If all your foreign in-
come is exempt from U.S. tax, you will not be able to claim
a foreign tax credit.

If, because of the limit on the credit, you cannot use the
full amount of qualified foreign taxes paid or accrued in the
tax year, you are allowed to carry the excess back 1 year
and then forward 10 years.

Exemption from limit. You can elect to not be subject
to the foreign tax limit if you meet all the following condi-
tions.

• Your only foreign income is passive income, such as

interest, dividends, and royalties.

• The total of all your foreign taxes is not more than

$300 ($600 for joint tax returns).

• The foreign income and taxes are reported to you on a
payee statement, such as Form 1099-DIV, Dividends
and Distributions, or 1099-INT, Interest Income.

If you make the election, you can claim a foreign tax credit
without filing Form 1116. However, you cannot carry back
or carry over any unused foreign tax to or from this year.

Foreign tax deduction. You cannot deduct foreign taxes
paid on income you exclude under the foreign earned in-
come or housing exclusions.

Example. Pat and Charlie are married and live and
work in Country X. Pat works for the U.S. Government and
Charlie is employed by a private company. They pay in-
come tax to Country X on Charlie’s income only.

Pat and Charlie file a joint tax return and exclude all of
Charlie’s income. They cannot claim a foreign tax credit or
take a deduction for the taxes paid to Country X.

More information. The foreign tax credit and deduction,
their limits, and carryback and carryover provisions are
discussed in detail in Pub. 514, Foreign Tax Credit for
Individuals.

Local (Foreign)
Tax Return

As a U.S. Government employee, you are expected to ob-
serve and fulfill all tax obligations imposed by the host
country government. Check with local tax authorities to
determine whether you are considered a tax resident of
your host country, whether you are required to file a host
country tax return and whether you owe taxes to the host
country.

Tax Treaty Benefits

As discussed earlier, most income tax treaties contain an
article relating to remuneration from government services.
Review the treaty text carefully to determine whether your
U.S. Government remuneration is taxable in the host
country. You will first have to determine whether you are a
resident of your host country under the treaty residence
article (after application of the “tie-breaker” rule).

If you or your spouse receives income from a private
employer or self-employment, review the tax treaty rules
relating to income from personal services and to business
profits to determine whether that income is taxable in the
host country.

If you pay or accrue taxes to both the host country and
the United States, you may be able to relieve double taxa-
tion with a foreign tax credit. Most income tax treaties con-
tain an article providing relief from double taxation. Many
treaties contain special foreign tax credit rules for U.S. citi-
zens who are residents of a treaty country. For more infor-
mation about the foreign tax credit, see Foreign Taxes,
above. For more information about U.S. Tax Treaties, see
Pub. 901.

Other Agreements

The United States may be a party to agreements other
than income tax treaties that may affect your tax obliga-
tions to the host country. For example, consular employ-
ees may be exempt from host country tax under the

10

Publication 516 (11-2024)

!

CAUTION