Publication 936

Home
Mortgage
Interest
Deduction

For use in preparing
2025 Returns

Reminders
Mortgage insurance premiums. The itemized deduc-
tion for mortgage insurance premiums has expired. You
can no longer claim the deduction.

Home equity loan interest. No matter when the indebt-
edness was incurred, you can no longer deduct the inter-
est from a loan secured by your home to the extent the
loan proceeds weren't used to buy, build, or substantially
improve your home.

Home mortgage interest. You can deduct home mort-
gage interest on the first $750,000 ($375,000 if married fil-
ing separately) of indebtedness. However, higher limita-
tions ($1 million ($500,000 if married filing separately))
apply if you are deducting mortgage interest from indebt-
edness incurred before December 16, 2017.

Future developments. For the latest information about
developments related to Pub. 936, such as legislation
enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub936.

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
ges that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recog-
nize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses the rules for deducting home
mortgage interest.

Part I contains general information on home mortgage
interest, including points. It also explains how to report de-
ductible interest on your tax return.

Part II explains how your deduction for home mortgage
interest may be limited. It contains Table 1, which is a
worksheet you can use to figure the limit on your deduc-
tion.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.

You can send us comments

IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

through

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/

Oct 28, 2025

Publication 936 (2025) Catalog Number 10426G
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
to order
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

504
523
527
530

504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
523 Selling Your Home
527 Residential Rental Property
530 Tax Information for Homeowners

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications.

Part I. Home
Mortgage Interest

This part explains what you can deduct as home mort-
gage interest. It includes discussions on points and how to
report deductible interest on your tax return.

Generally, home mortgage interest is any interest you
pay on a loan secured by your home (main home or a sec-
ond home). The loan may be a mortgage to buy your
home, or a second mortgage.

You can’t deduct home mortgage interest unless the

following conditions are met.

• You file Form 1040 or 1040-SR and itemize deduc-

tions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

• The mortgage is a secured debt on a qualified home
in which you have an ownership interest. Secured
Debt and Qualified Home are explained later.

Both you and the lender must intend that the loan be re-
paid.

Note: Interest on home equity loans and lines of credit
are deductible only if the borrowed funds are used to buy,

build, or substantially improve the taxpayer’s home that
secures the loan. The loan must be secured by the tax-
payer’s main home or second home (qualified residence),
and meet other requirements.

Fully deductible interest. In most cases, you can de-
duct all of your home mortgage interest. How much you
can deduct depends on the date of the mortgage, the
amount of the mortgage, and how you use the mortgage
proceeds.

If all of your mortgages fit into one or more of the follow-
ing three categories at all times during the year, you can
deduct all of the interest on those mortgages. (If any one
mortgage fits into more than one category, add the debt
that fits in each category to your other debt in the same
category.) If one or more of your mortgages doesn’t fit into
any of these categories, use Part II of this publication to
figure the amount of interest you can deduct.

The three categories are as follows.

1. Mortgages you took out on or before October 13,

1987 (called grandfathered debt).

2. Mortgages you (or your spouse if married filing a joint
return) took out after October 13, 1987, and prior to
December 16, 2017 (see binding contract exception
below), to buy, build, or substantially improve your
home (called home acquisition debt), but only if
throughout 2025 these mortgages plus any grandfath-
ered debt totaled $1 million or less ($500,000 or less
if married filing separately).

Exception. A taxpayer who enters into a written
binding contract before December 15, 2017, to close
on the purchase of a principal residence before Janu-
ary 1, 2018, and who purchases such residence be-
fore April 1, 2018, is considered to have incurred the
home acquisition debt prior to December 16, 2017.

3. Mortgages you (or your spouse if married filing a joint
return) took out after December 15, 2017, to buy,
build, or substantially improve your home (called
home acquisition debt), but only if throughout 2025
these mortgages plus any grandfathered debt totaled
$750,000 or less ($375,000 or less if married filing
separately).

The dollar limits for the second and third categories apply
to the combined mortgages on your main home and sec-
ond home.

See Part II for more detailed definitions of grandfath-

ered debt and home acquisition debt.

You can use Figure A to check whether your home

mortgage interest is fully deductible.

2

Publication 936 (2025)