How to Apply for a
Certificate of Discharge From Federal Tax Lien

A Certificate of Discharge under Internal Revenue Code Section
6325(b) removes the United States’ lien from the property
named in the certificate. Discharge of property under Internal
Revenue Code Section 6325(c) subject to an Estate Tax Lien is
not covered in this publication. For Estate Tax Lien discharges
see instead the application and instructions found in Form 4422

1. Complete Form 14135, Application for Certificate

of Discharge of Federal Tax Lien attached with this
publication.

2. Mail the completed Form 14135 and the appropriate

attachments to:
IRS Advisory Consolidated Receipts
7940 Kentucky Drive, Stop 2850F
Florence, KY 41042
(Refer to Publication 4235 Collection Advisory Group
Addresses for additional contact information.)

If you have any questions, contact the Advisory Consolidated
Receipts Office at 859-594-6090.

If you want to know how much you owe in order to pay the
lien(s) in full, call 1-800-913-6050, visit the nearest Taxpayer
Assistance Center, or contact the revenue officer assigned to
your case.

Important!
Please submit your application at least 45 days before the
transaction date that the certificate of discharge is needed.
Doing so will allow sufficient time for review, determination,
notification and the furnishing of any applicable documents by
the transaction date.

Information Required on the Application

Section 1 - Taxpayer Information

1. Enter the name and address of the individual(s) or business
as it appears on the Notice of Federal Tax Lien (NFTL). A
second name line is provided if needed.

2. Enter, if known, the last 4 digits of the social security

number (SSN) or full employer identification number as it
appears on the NFTL.

3. Enter, if known and if applicable, the last 4 digits of any

spousal SSN (secondary SSN) associated with the tax debt
listed on the NFTL.

4. Provide a daytime phone number and a fax number.

Section 2 - Applicant Information

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 2 if you are both
the taxpayer and the applicant. If you are not the taxpayer,
attach a copy of the lien.

2. If you have checked the box indicating that you are the

taxpayer and your information is the same as listed on the
lien, enter “same as taxpayer” on the name line.

3. If you are not the taxpayer or you are the taxpayer but your
information is no longer the same as the information on the
Notice of Federal Tax Lien, enter your name (include any
name changes), current address, daytime phone number
and fax number.

4. If you are not the taxpayer, enter in the box next to “Name”
your relationship to the taxpayer (e.g. parent, uncle, sister,
no relation, etc).

Section 3 - Purchaser/Transferee/New Owner

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 3 if you are both

the property owner and the applicant.

2. Enter the name of the property owner. Or enter “NA” if you
have checked the box indicating you are both the applicant
and the property owner, enter, “same as applicant”.

3. Enter the property owner’s relationship to the taxpayer (e.g.

taxpayer, parent, no relation, etc.).

Section 4 - Attorney/Representative Information

This section is used to list the taxpayer’s representative or a
representative of a party other than the taxpayer, such as the
lender, needing to receive information from the IRS. However,
you do not need a representative to request discharge of the
federal tax lien.

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 4 if you are

attaching a Form 8821 (Tax Information Authority) or Form
2848 (Power of Attorney) with your application. If you
are attaching one of these forms, please make sure it is
completely filled out, signed, and dated. You must provide
one of these forms if the representative represents an
interest other than the taxpayer.

2. Enter the name, address, phone number, and fax number

of your representative in this action. The IRS will work with
you and your representative to process your application.
Or enter “NA” on the name line if you are not using a
representative.

3. Enter whose interest the representative represents (e.g.
taxpayer, lender, title company, etc.). This allows the IRS
to determine what information can be shared with the
representative.

Section 5 – Lender/Finance Company Information
(Settlement/Escrow Company for Section 6325(b)(3) only)

Enter the company name, contact name, and phone number for
the title or escrow company that will be used at settlement.

Section 6 – Monetary Information

1. Provide the proposed property sale amount

2. Provide the amount of proceeds the IRS can expect for

application to the tax liability.

3. Enter NA for the amount of proceeds the IRS can expect, if

you anticipate there will be no proceeds.

Section 7 - Basis for Discharge

Discharge of property from the federal tax lien may be granted
under several Internal Revenue Code (IRC) provisions. After
reviewing the discharge sections, explanations, and examples
below, select the discharge section that best applies to your
application. If the IRS does not agree with your selection after
its review, an explanation of the decision will be provided.

Publication 783 (Rev. 12-2022) Catalog Number 46755I Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Services www.irs.gov
1. 6325(b)(1) – a discharge may be issued under this

Submit a copy of the proposed escrow agreement.

provision if the value of the taxpayer’s remaining property
encumbered by the federal tax lien is equal to at least twice
the amount of the federal tax liability secured by the lien
and any encumbrance entered into before the IRS filed its
public notice of the lien. If there are mortgages, state and/
or local taxes, mechanics liens, etc., the amount of these
debts would be added to the amount of the tax liability and
multiplied by 2.

Example
Tax liability
Other Debts

$15,500
+ $23,334
$38,834
x 2
$77,668

The property remaining subject to the lien must be at least
$77,668.

2. 6325(b)(2)(A) – a discharge may be issued under this

provision when the tax liability is partially satisfied with an
amount paid that is not less than the value of the United
States’ interest in the property being discharged. For
example, the IRS has a lien totaling $203,000 and:

• Property selling for:

$215,000

5. 6325(b)(4) – a discharge will be issued under this provision
to a third party who owns the property if a deposit is made
or an acceptable bond provided equal to the government’s
interest in the property. In the case of Tenancy by
Entireties property, a deposit or an acceptable bond
totaling one-half the government’s interest in the property
must be made. If you are the property owner (but not the
taxpayer, i.e., you are not responsible for the tax liability)
and you make a deposit or post an acceptable bond to
obtain a discharge under this section, you have 120 days
to file an action in federal district court, under section
7426(a)(4), challenging the IRS’ determination of the
government’s lien interest. This is the exclusive remedy
available to the third party for the return of the deposit
or accepted bond or a portion thereof. An administrative
request for refund and a refund suit in district court is not
available. The Circular 570, available at https://fiscal.
treasury.gov/surety-bonds/ contains a list of companies
certified by the Secretary of the Treasury as providers of
acceptable securities.

6. 6325(c) – a discharge of property subject to an Estate Tax
Lien is not covered in this publication. Please refer to Form
4422.

• Minus encumbrances senior to IRS lien:

$135,000

Section 8 – Description of Property

• Minus proposed settlement costs:

• The IRS lien interest equals:

$ 15,000

$ 65,000

After the IRS receives and applies the $65,000 in partial
satisfaction of the tax liability, there remains an outstanding
tax debt of $138,000.

In the case of Tenancy by Entireties property, the United
States is generally paid one-half of the proceeds in partial
satisfaction of the liability secured by the tax lien.

3. 6325(b)(2)(B) – a discharge may be issued under this
provision when it is determined that the government’s
interest in the property has no value. The debts senior to
the federal tax lien are greater than the fair market value of
the property or greater than the sale value of the property.
Submit a copy of the proposed escrow agreement as part
of the application.

1. Enter a detailed description of the property to be

discharged from the federal tax lien.

2. When the property is real estate include the type of

property, for example, 3-bedroom house; etc. When the
property is personal property include serial or vehicle
numbers, as appropriate, for example, 2002 Cessna twin
engine airplane, serial number AT919000000000X00; etc.

3. Provide the physical address if real estate or physical

location address if personal property.

4. Check the appropriate box to indicate whether you
attached a copy of the title or deed to the property.

5. If you are applying under 6325(b)(1) check the “Attached”
box and attach copies of the titles or deeds for property
remaining subject to the lien. If you are not applying under
6325(b)(1) check the “NA” box.

4. 6325(b)(3) – a discharge may be issued under this

Section 9 – Appraisal and Valuations

provision if an agreement is reached with the IRS allowing
the property to be sold. Per an escrow agreement the sale
proceeds must be held in a fund subject to the claims
of the United States in the same manner and priority
the claims had prior to the property being discharged.
For example, there are two mortgages senior to the IRS
tax lien totaling $32,000 and $5,000. The government’s
interest in the property is $40,000 and there are liens on
the property junior to the IRS lien in the amount of $3,000,
$12,000 and $2,990. The proceeds from the sale would be
dispensed by paying the debts in the following sequence.

a. $32,000

b. $5,000

c. $40,000

d. $3,000

e. 12,000

f. $2,990

1. Check the “Attached” box after “Required Appraisal”

indicate whether you have attached the required
appraisal by a disinterested third party. This is typically a
professional appraisal providing neighborhood analysis;
description of the site; description of the improvements;
cost approach; comparable sales; definition of market
value; certification; contingent and limiting conditions;
interior and exterior photos of the property; exterior photos
of comparable sales used; comparable sales location map;
sketch of subject property showing room layout; flood map
and qualifications of the appraiser.

2. Check the appropriate box under the “Plus One of the

Following Additional Valuations” section to indicate which
other type of property value verification is attached with
your application.

Note: For applications under IRC 6325(b)(1), valuation
information described above must also be provided for
property remaining subject to lien.