forms of compensation such as fringe benefits
and stock options.

You should receive a Form W-2 from your
employer or former employer showing the pay
you received for your services. Include all your
pay on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, even if
you don’t receive Form W-2, or you receive a
Form W-2 that doesn’t include all pay that
should be included on the Form W-2.

If you performed services, other than as an
independent contractor, and your employer
didn’t withhold social security and Medicare
taxes from your pay, you must file Form 8919,
Uncollected Social Security and Medicare Tax
on Wages, with your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
These wages must be included on Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 1g. See Form 8919 for more
information.

Fair market value (FMV). The FMV of an
item of property is the price at which the item
would change hands between a willing buyer
and a willing seller, neither being required to
buy or sell and both having reasonable knowl-
edge of the relevant facts.

Childcare providers. If you provide childcare,
either in the child’s home or in your home or
other place of business, the pay you receive
must be included in your income. If you’re not
an employee, you’re probably self-employed
and must include payments for your services on
Schedule C (Form 1040), Profit or Loss From
Business. You generally aren’t an employee un-
less you’re subject to the will and control of the
person who employs you as to what you’re to do
and how you’re to do it.

Babysitting. If you babysit for relatives or
neighborhood children, whether on a regular
basis or only periodically, the rules for childcare
providers apply to you.

Self-employment tax. Whether you’re an
employee or a self-employed person, your in-
come could be subject to self-employment tax.
See the Instructions for Schedule C (Form
1040) and the Instructions for Schedule SE
(Form 1040) if you’re self-employed. Also, see
Pub. 926 for more information.

Bankruptcy. If you filed for bankruptcy under
chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, you must
allocate your wages and withheld income tax.
Your Form W-2 will show your total wages and
withheld income tax for the year. On your tax re-
turn, you report the wages and withheld income
tax for the period before you filed for bank-
ruptcy. Your bankruptcy estate reports the wa-
ges and withheld income tax for the period after
you filed for bankruptcy. If you receive other in-
formation returns (such as Form 1099-DIV or
Form 1099-INT) that report gross income to
you, rather than to the bankruptcy estate, you
must allocate that income.

The only exception is for purposes of figur-
ing your self-employment tax if you’re self-em-
ployed. For that purpose, you must take into ac-
count all your self-employment income for the
year from services performed both before and
after the beginning of the case.

You must file a statement with your income
tax return stating you filed a chapter 11 bank-
ruptcy case. The statement must show the

Publication 525 (2025)

allocation and describe the method used to
make the allocation. For a sample of this state-
information, see Notice
ment and other
I.R.B. 596, available at
2006-83, 2006-40
For
IRS.gov/irb/2006-40_IRB#NOT-2006-83.
additional information on bankruptcy, see Pub.
908.

Miscellaneous
Compensation

This section discusses many types of employee
compensation.

Advance commissions and other earnings.
If you receive advance commissions or other
amounts for services to be performed in the fu-
ture and you’re a cash-method taxpayer, you
must include these amounts in your income in
the year you receive them.

If you repay unearned commissions or other
amounts in the same year you receive them, re-
duce the amount of unearned commissions in-
cluded in your income by the repayment. If you
repay them in a later tax year, you can deduct
the repayment as an itemized deduction on your
Schedule A (Form 1040), Other Itemized De-
ductions, or you may be able to take a credit for
that year. See Repayments, later.

Allowances and reimbursements. If you re-
ceive travel, transportation, or other business
expense allowances or reimbursements from
your employer, see Pub. 463.

Back pay awards. Include in income amounts
you’re awarded in a settlement or judgment for
back pay. These include payments made to you
for damages, unpaid life insurance premiums,
and unpaid health insurance premiums. They
should be reported to you by your employer on
Form W-2.

Bonuses and awards. Bonuses or awards
(cash, goods, services, etc.) you receive for out-
standing work are included in your income and
should be shown on your Form W-2. These in-
clude prizes such as vacation trips for meeting
sales goals. If the prize or award you receive is
goods or services, you must include the FMV of
the goods or services in your income. However,
if your employer merely promises to pay you a
bonus or award at some future time, it isn’t taxa-
ble until you receive it or it’s made available to
you.

Employee achievement award. If you re-
ceive tangible personal property (other than
cash, a gift certificate, or an equivalent item) as
an award for length of service or safety achieve-
ment, you must generally exclude its value from
your income. However, the amount you can ex-
clude is limited to your employer’s cost and
can’t be more than $1,600 ($400 for awards that
aren’t qualified plan awards) for all such awards
you receive during the year. Your employer can
tell you whether your award is a qualified plan
award. Your employer must make the award as
part of a meaningful presentation, under condi-
tions and circumstances that don’t create a sig-
nificant likelihood of it being disguised pay.

However, the exclusion doesn’t apply to the

following awards.

• A length-of-service award if you received it
for less than 5 years of service or if you re-
ceived another length-of-service award
during the year or the previous 4 years.
• A safety achievement award if you’re a

manager, administrator, clerical employee,
or other professional employee or if more
than 10% of eligible employees previously
received safety achievement awards dur-
ing the year.

Example 2. You received three employee
achievement awards during the year: a nonqua-
lified plan award of a watch valued at $250, and
two qualified plan awards of a stereo valued at
$1,000 and a set of golf clubs valued at $500.
Assuming that the requirements for qualified
plan awards are otherwise satisfied, each award
by itself would be excluded from income. How-
ever, because the $1,750 total value of the
awards is more than $1,600, you must include
$150 ($1,750 − $1,600) in your income.

Differential wage payments. This is any pay-
ment made by an employer to an individual for
any period during which the individual is, for a
period of more than 30 days, an active duty
member of the uniformed services and repre-
sents all or a portion of the wages the individual
would have received from the employer for that
period. These payments are treated as wages
and are subject to income tax withholding but
not Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA)
or Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) tax.
The payments are reported as wages on Form
W-2.

Government
allowances.
cost-of-living
Most payments received by U.S. Government
civilian employees for working abroad are taxa-
ble. However, certain cost-of-living allowances
are tax free. Pub. 516 explains the tax treatment
of allowances, differentials, and other special
pay you receive for employment abroad.

Nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
Your employer will report to you the total amount
of deferrals for the year under a nonqualified de-
ferred compensation plan. This amount
is
shown in box 12 of Form W-2, using code Y.
This amount isn’t included in your income.

However, if at any time during the tax year,
the plan fails to meet certain requirements, or
isn’t operated under those requirements, all
amounts deferred under the plan for the tax
year and all preceding tax years are included in
your income for the current year. This amount is
included in your wages shown in box 1 of Form
W-2. It’s also shown in box 12 of Form W-2, us-
ing code Z.

Nonqualified deferred compensation plans
of nonqualified entities. In most cases, any
compensation deferred under a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan of a nonqualified
entity is included in gross income when there is
no substantial risk of forfeiture of the rights to
such compensation. For this purpose, a non-
qualified entity is one of the following.

1. A foreign corporation, unless substantially

all of its income is:

3
Table 1. Cost of $1,000 of
Group-Term Life Insurance for 1
Month

Age

Cost

Under 25
25 through 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 0.05
0.06

30 through 34
35 through 39

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

40 through 44
45 through 49

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

50 through 54
55 through 59

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

60 through 64
65 through 69

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

0.08
0.09

0.10
0.15

0.23
0.43

0.66
1.27

70 and above . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.06

Example 3. You’re 51 years old and work
for two employers, Green Company and Maple
Company. Both employers provide group-term
life insurance coverage for you for the entire
year. Your coverage is $35,000 with Green
Company and $45,000 with Maple Company.
You pay premiums of $4.15 a month under the
Maple Company group plan. You figure the
amount to include in your income as follows.

• Provides an amount of insurance to each

employee based on a formula that prevents
individual selection.

Permanent benefits. If your group-term
life insurance policy includes permanent bene-
fits, such as a paid-up or cash surrender value,
you must include in your income, as wages, the
cost of the permanent benefits minus the
amount you pay for them. Your employer should
be able to tell you the amount to include in your
income.

Accidental death benefits. Insurance that
provides accidental or other death benefits but
doesn’t provide general death benefits (for ex-
ample, travel insurance) isn’t group-term life in-
surance.

Former employer. If your former employer
provided more than $50,000 of group-term life
insurance coverage during the year, the amount
included in your income is reported as wages in
box 1 of Form W-2. Also, it’s shown separately
in box 12 with code C. Box 12 will also show the
amount of uncollected social security and Medi-
care taxes on the excess coverage, with codes
M and N. You must pay these taxes with your in-
come tax return. Include them on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 13. For more information, see
the Instructions for Form 1040.

life

Two or more employers. Your exclusion for
employer-provided group-term
insurance
coverage can’t exceed the cost of $50,000 of
coverage, whether the insurance is provided by
a single employer or multiple employers. If two
or more employers provide insurance coverage
that totals more than $50,000, the amounts re-
ported as wages on your Forms W-2 won’t be
correct. You must figure how much to include in
your income. Reduce the amount you figure by
any amount reported in box 12 of Form W-2,
with code C; add the result to the wages repor-
ted in box 1; and report the total on your return.

Figuring the taxable cost. Use the following
worksheet to figure the amount to include in
your income.

If you pay any part of the cost of the insur-
ance, your entire payment reduces, dollar for
dollar, the amount you would otherwise include
in your income. However, you can’t reduce the
amount to include in your income by:

• Payments for coverage in a different tax

year;

• Payments for coverage through a cafeteria
plan, unless the payments are after-tax
contributions; or

• Payments for coverage not taxed to you

because of the exceptions discussed later
under Entire cost excluded.

Worksheet 1. Figuring the Cost of
Group-Term Life Insurance To
Include in Income (Keep for Your
Records)

1. Enter the total amount of
your insurance coverage
from your
employer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

2.

Limit on exclusion for
employer-provided
group-term life insurance
coverage . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. 50,000

3. Subtract line 2 from

line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

4. Divide line 3 by $1,000.
Figure to the nearest
tenth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

5. Go to Table 1. Using your
age on the last day of the
tax year, find your age group
in the left column, and enter
the cost from the column on
the right for your age
group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

6. Multiply line 4 by

line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

7. Enter the number of full

months of coverage at this
cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

8. Multiply line 6 by

line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

9. Enter the

premiums you
paid per
month . . . . . . . . 9.

10. Enter the number
of months you
paid the
premiums . . . . . 10.

11. Multiply line 9 by

line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

12. Subtract line 11 from line 8.
Include this amount in
your income as
wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12.

6

Publication 525 (2025)
Retirement Planning Services

Tuition Reduction

If your employer has a qualified retirement plan,
qualified retirement planning services provided
to you (and your spouse) by your employer
aren’t included in your income. Qualified serv-
ices include retirement planning advice, infor-
mation about your employer’s retirement plan,
and information about how the plan may fit into
your overall individual retirement income plan.
You can’t exclude the value of any tax prepara-
tion, accounting, legal, or brokerage services
provided by your employer. Also, see Financial
Counseling Fees, earlier.

Transportation

If your employer provides you with a qualified
transportation fringe benefit, it can be excluded
from your income, up to certain limits. A quali-
fied transportation fringe benefit is:

• Transportation in a commuter highway ve-
hicle (such as a van) between your home
and work place,
• A transit pass, or
• Qualified parking.

Cash reimbursement by your employer for
these expenses under a bona fide reimburse-
ment arrangement is also excludable. However,
cash reimbursement for a transit pass is exclud-
able only if a voucher or similar item that can be
exchanged only for a transit pass isn’t readily
available for direct distribution to you.

Exclusion limit. The exclusion for commuter
vehicle transportation and transit pass fringe
benefits can’t be more than $325 a month.

The exclusion for the qualified parking fringe

benefit can’t be more than $325 a month.

If the benefits have a value that is more than
these limits, the excess must be included in
your income.

Commuter highway vehicle. This is a high-
way vehicle that seats at least six adults (not in-
cluding the driver). At least 80% of the vehicle’s
mileage must reasonably be expected to be:

• For transporting employees between their

homes and workplace, and

• On trips during which employees occupy at
least half of the vehicle’s adult seating ca-
pacity (not including the driver).

Transit pass. This is any pass, token, farecard,
voucher, or similar item entitling a person to ride
mass transit (whether public or private) free or
at a reduced rate or to ride in a commuter high-
way vehicle operated by a person in the busi-
ness of transporting persons for compensation.

Qualified parking. This is parking provided to
an employee at or near the employer’s place of
business. It also includes parking provided on
or near a location from which the employee
commutes to work by mass transit, in a com-
muter highway vehicle, or by car pool. It doesn’t
include parking at or near the employee’s home.

You can exclude a qualified tuition reduction
from your income. This is the amount of a
reduction in tuition:

• For education (below graduate level) fur-
nished by an educational institution to an
employee, former employee who retired or
became disabled, or their spouse and de-
pendent children;

• For education furnished to a graduate stu-
dent at an educational institution if the
graduate student is engaged in teaching or
research activities for that institution; or
• Representing payment for teaching, re-

search, or other services if you receive the
amount under the National Health Service
Corps Scholarship Program or the Armed
Forces Health Professions Scholarship
and Financial Assistance program.

For more information, see Pub. 970.

Working Condition Benefits

If your employer provides you with a product or
service and the cost of it would have been al-
lowable as a business or depreciation deduc-
tion if you paid for it yourself, the cost isn’t inclu-
ded in your income.

Example 6. You work as an engineer and
your employer provides you with a subscription
to an engineering trade magazine. The cost of
the subscription isn’t included in your income
because the cost would have been allowable to
you as a business deduction if you had paid for
the subscription yourself.

Valuation of Fringe Benefits

If a fringe benefit is included in your income, the
amount included is generally its value deter-
mined under the general valuation rule or under
the special valuation rules. For an exception,
see Employer-Provided Group-Term Life Insur-
ance, earlier.

General valuation rule. You must include in
your income the amount by which the FMV of
the fringe benefit is more than the sum of:

1. The amount, if any, you paid for the bene-

fit; plus

2. The amount, if any, specifically excluded

from your income by law.

If you pay FMV for a fringe benefit, no amount is
included in your income.

Fringe benefit FMV. The FMV of a fringe
benefit is determined by all the facts and cir-
cumstances. It’s the amount you would have to
pay a third party to buy or lease the benefit. This
is determined without regard to:

• Your perceived value of the benefit, or
• The amount your employer paid for the

benefit.

Employer-provided vehicles. If your em-
ployer provides a car (or other highway motor
vehicle) to you, your personal use of the car is
usually a taxable noncash fringe benefit.

Under the general valuation rule, the value
of an employer-provided vehicle is the amount

you would have to pay a third party to lease the
same or a similar vehicle on the same or com-
parable terms in the same geographic area
where you use the vehicle. An example of a
comparable lease term is the amount of time
the vehicle is available for your use, such as a
1-year period. The value can’t be determined by
multiplying a cents-per-mile rate times the num-
ber of miles driven unless you prove the vehicle
could have been leased on a cents-per-mile ba-
sis. See Notice 2021-7 for more information on
temporary relief for employers and employees
using the automobile lease valuation rule to de-
termine the value of an employer-provided vehi-
cle in 2020 or 2021. The special valuation rule
used for 2021 under the Notice must continue
to be used by the employer and the employee
for all subsequent years, except to the extent
the employer uses the commuting valuation
rule. See Special valuation rules below.

Flights on employer-provided aircraft.
Under the general valuation rules, if your flight
on an employer-provided piloted aircraft is pri-
marily personal and you control the use of the
aircraft for the flight, the value is the amount it
would cost to charter the flight from a third party.
If there is more than one employee on the
flight, the cost to charter the aircraft must be
divided among those employees. The division
must be based on all the facts, including which
employee or employees control the use of the
aircraft.

Special valuation rules. Generally, you can
use a special valuation rule for a fringe benefit
only if your employer uses the rule. If your em-
ployer uses a special valuation rule, you can’t
use a different special rule to value that benefit.
You can always use the general valuation rule
discussed earlier, based on facts and circum-
stances, even if your employer uses a special
rule.

If you and your employer use a special valu-
ation rule, you must include in your income the
amount your employer determines under the
special rule minus the sum of:

1. Any amount you repaid your employer,

plus

2. Any amount specifically excluded from in-

come by law.

The special valuation rules are the following.

• The automobile lease rule.
• The vehicle cents-per-mile rule.
• The commuting rule.
• The unsafe conditions commuting rule.
• The employer-operated eating-facility rule.
For more information on these rules, see

Pub. 15-B.

For information on the noncommercial flight
and commercial flight valuation rules, see sec-
tions 1.61-21(g) and 1.61-21(h) of the regula-
tions.

Retirement Plan
Contributions

Except for Roth contributions, your employer’s
contributions to a qualified retirement plan for
you aren’t included in income at the time con-
tributed. (Your employer can tell you whether

8

Publication 525 (2025)