Under the 12-month rule, a taxpayer is not required to
capitalize amounts paid to create certain rights or benefits
for the taxpayer that do not extend beyond the earlier of
the following.
• 12 months after the right or benefit begins, or
• The end of the tax year after the tax year in which pay-

ment is made.

If you have not been applying the general rule (an ex-
pense paid in advance is deductible only in the year to
which it applies) and/or the 12-month rule to the expenses
you paid in advance, you must obtain approval from the
IRS before using the general rule and/or the 12-month
rule. See Change in Accounting Method, later.

Example 1. You are a calendar year taxpayer and
pay $3,000 in 2021 for a business insurance policy that is
effective for 3 years (36 months), beginning on July 1,
2021. The general rule that an expense paid in advance is
deductible only in the year to which it applies is applicable
to this payment because the payment does not qualify for
the 12-month rule. Therefore, only $500 (6/36 x $3,000) is
deductible in 2021, $1,000 (12/36 x $3,000) is deductible
in 2022, $1,000 (12/36 x $3,000) is deductible in 2023,
and the remaining $500 is deductible in 2024.

Example 2. You are a calendar year taxpayer and
pay $10,000 on July 1, 2021, for a business insurance
policy that is effective for only 1 year beginning on July 1,
2021. The 12-month rule applies. Therefore, the full
$10,000 is deductible in 2021.

Excluded Entities

The following entities generally cannot use the cash
method, including any combination of methods that in-
cludes the cash method. (However, see Special rules for
farming businesses, later.)

• A corporation (other than an S corporation). However,

see Exceptions below.

• A partnership with a corporation (other than an S cor-
poration) as a partner. However, see Exceptions be-
low.

• A tax shelter, as defined in section 448(d)(3).

Exceptions

The following entities can use the cash method of ac-
counting.
• Any corporation or partnership, other than a tax shel-
ter, that meets the gross receipts test explained be-
low.

• A qualified personal service corporation (PSC).

Gross receipts test. A corporation or partnership, other
than a tax shelter, that meets the gross receipts test can
generally use the cash method. A corporation or a part-
nership meets the test if its average annual gross receipts
for the 3 prior tax years were $26 million or less (indexed
for inflation).

Determine an entity’s average annual gross receipts

by:

1. Adding the gross receipts for the 3 prior tax years;

and

2. Dividing the total by 3.

Generally, a partnership applies the test at the partnership
level. Gross receipts for a short tax year are annualized.

Aggregation rules. Organizations that are members
of an affiliated service group or a controlled group of cor-
porations treated as a single employer for tax purposes
must aggregate their gross receipts to determine whether
the gross receipts test is met.

Change to accrual method. A corporation or part-
nership that fails to meet the gross receipts test for any tax
year cannot use the cash method and must change to an
accrual method of accounting, effective for the tax year in
which the entity fails to meet this test. The entity must file
Form 3115 to request the change. See the Instructions for
Form 3115.

Special rules for farming businesses. Generally, a
taxpayer engaged in the trade or business of farming is al-
lowed to use the cash method for its farming business.
However, certain corporations (other than S corporations)
and partnerships that have a partner that is a corporation
must use an accrual method for their farming business,
unless they meet the gross receipts test discussed above.
See chapter 2 of Pub. 225, Farmer's Tax Guide, for

more information.

Qualified Personal Service Corporation (PSC). A cor-
poration that meets the function and ownership tests be-
low is a qualified PSC and can use the cash method.

Function test. A corporation meets the function test if
at least 95% of its activities are in the performance of
services in the fields of health (including veterinary serv-
ices), law, engineering (including surveying and mapping),
architecture, accounting, actuarial science, performing
arts, or consulting.

Ownership test. A corporation meets the ownership
test if substantially all of its stock is owned, directly or indi-
rectly, at all times during the year by one or more of the
following.

1. Employees performing services for the corporation in

a field qualifying under the function test.

2. Retired employees who had performed services in

those fields.

3. The estate of an employee described in (1) or (2).

4. Any other person who acquired the stock by reason of
the death of an employee referred to in (1) or (2), but
only for the 2-year period beginning on the date of
death.

Indirect ownership is generally taken into account if the
stock is owned indirectly through one or more partner-
ships, S corporations, or qualified PSCs. Stock owned by
one of these entities is considered owned by the entity's

Publication 538 (January 2022)

Page 9
Related Persons

Business expenses and interest owed to a related person
who uses the cash method of accounting are not deducti-
ble until you make the payment and the corresponding
amount is includible in the related person's gross income.
Determine the relationship for this rule as of the end of the
tax year for which the expense or interest would otherwise
be deductible. See section 267 of the Internal Revenue
Code for the definition of related person.

Inventories

An inventory is necessary to clearly show income when
the production, purchase, or sale of merchandise is an in-
come-producing factor. If you must account for an inven-
tory in your business, you must use an accrual method of
accounting for your purchases and sales. However, see
Exception for Small Business Taxpayers, below. Also, see
Accrual Method, earlier.

To figure taxable income, you must value your inven-
tory at the beginning and end of each tax year. To deter-
mine the value, you need a method for identifying the
items in your inventory and a method for valuing these
items. See Identifying Cost and Valuing Inventory, later.

The rules for valuing inventory are not the same for all
businesses. The method you use must conform to gener-
ally accepted accounting principles for similar businesses
and must clearly reflect income. Your inventory practices
must be consistent from year to year.

The rules discussed here apply only if they do not
conflict with the uniform capitalization rules of
section 263A and the mark-to-market rules of sec-

tion 475.

Exception for Small Business Taxpayers

If you are a small business taxpayer (defined below), you
can choose not to keep an inventory, but you must still
use a method of accounting for inventory that clearly re-
flects income. A small business taxpayer can account for
inventory by (a) treating the inventory as non-incidental
materials and supplies, or (b) conforming to its treatment
of inventory in an applicable financial statement (as de-
fined in section 451(b)(3)). If it does not have an applica-
ble financial statement, it can use the method of account-
ing used in its books and records prepared according to
its accounting procedures. See Regulations section
1.471-1(b). If, however, you choose to keep an inventory,
you generally must use an accrual method of accounting
and value the inventory each year to determine your cost
of goods sold.

Small business taxpayer. You qualify as a small busi-
ness taxpayer if you:
• Have average annual gross receipts of $26 million or
less (indexed for inflation) for the 3 prior tax years, and
• Are not a tax shelter (as defined in section 448(d)(3)).

If your business has not been in existence for all of the
3 tax-year period used in figuring average gross receipts,
base your average on the period it has existed. If your
business has a predecessor entity, include the gross re-
ceipts of the predecessor entity from the 3 tax-year period
when figuring average gross receipts. If your business (or
predecessor entity) had short tax years for any of the 3
tax-year period, annualize your business’s gross receipts
for the short tax years that are part of the 3 tax-year pe-
riod.

Changing your method of accounting for inventory.
If you want to change your method of accounting for in-
ventory, you must file Form 3115. See the Instructions for
Form 3115.

Items Included in Inventory

Your inventory should include all of the following.

• Merchandise or stock in trade.
• Raw materials.
• Work in process.
• Finished products.
• Supplies that physically become a part of the item in-

tended for sale.

Merchandise. Include the following merchandise in in-
ventory.
• Purchased merchandise if title has passed to you,

even if the merchandise is in transit or you do not have
physical possession for another reason.

• Goods under contract for sale that you have not yet

segregated and applied to the contract.

• Goods out on consignment.
• Goods held for sale in display rooms, merchandise
mart rooms, or booths located away from your place
of business.

C.O.D. mail sales. If you sell merchandise by mail
and intend payment and delivery to happen at the same
time, title passes when payment is made. Include the mer-
chandise in your closing inventory until the buyer pays for
it.

Containers. Containers such as kegs, bottles, and
cases, regardless of whether they are on hand or returna-
ble, should be included in inventory if title has not passed
to the buyer of the contents. If title has passed to the
buyer, exclude the containers from inventory. Under cer-
tain circumstances, some containers can be depreciated.
See Pub. 946.

Merchandise not included. Do not include the fol-

lowing merchandise in inventory.

• Goods you have sold, but only if title has passed to

the buyer.

• Goods consigned to you.

Publication 538 (January 2022)

Page 13

!

CAUTION
• Goods ordered for future delivery if you do not yet

have title.

Assets. Do not include the following in inventory.
• Land, buildings, and equipment used in your busi-

ness.

• Notes, accounts receivable, and similar assets.
• Real estate held for sale by a real estate dealer in the

ordinary course of business.

• Supplies that do not physically become part of the

item intended for sale.

Special rules apply to the cost of inventory or
property imported from a related person. See the
regulations under section 1059A of the Internal

Revenue Code.

Identifying Cost

You can use any of the following methods to identify the
cost of items in inventory.

Specific Identification Method

Use the specific identification method when you can iden-
tify and match the actual cost to the items in inventory.

Use the FIFO or LIFO method, explained next, if:
• You cannot specifically identify items with their costs,

or

• The same type of goods are intermingled in your in-

ventory and they cannot be identified with specific in-
voices.

FIFO Method

The FIFO (first-in first-out) method assumes the items you
purchased or produced first are the first items you sold,
consumed, or otherwise disposed of. The items in inven-
tory at the end of the tax year are matched with the costs
of similar items that you most recently purchased or pro-
duced.

LIFO Method

The LIFO (last-in first-out) method assumes the items of
inventory you purchased or produced last are the first
items you sold, consumed, or otherwise disposed of.
Items included in closing inventory are considered to be
from the opening inventory in the order of acquisition and
from those acquired during the tax year.

LIFO rules. The rules for using the LIFO method are
very complex. Two are discussed briefly here. For more
information on these and other LIFO rules, see sections
472 through 474 of the Internal Revenue Code and the re-
lated income tax regulations.

Dollar-value method. Under the dollar-value method
of pricing LIFO inventories, goods and products must be

grouped into one or more pools (classes of items), de-
pending on the kinds of goods or products in the invento-
ries. See Regulations section 1.472-8.

Simplified dollar-value method. Under this method,
you establish multiple inventory pools in general catego-
ries from appropriate government price indexes. You then
use changes in the price index to estimate the annual
change in price for inventory items in the pools.

An eligible small business (average annual gross re-
ceipts of $5 million or less for the 3 preceding tax years)
can elect the simplified dollar-value LIFO method. See
section 474(c).

Taxpayers who cannot use the method under section
474 should see Regulations section 1.472-8(e)(3) for a
similar simplified dollar-value method.

Adopting LIFO method. File Form 970, Application To
Use LIFO Inventory Method, or a statement with all the in-
formation required on Form 970 to adopt the LIFO
method. You must file the form (or the statement) with
your timely filed tax return for the year in which you first
use LIFO.

Differences Between
FIFO and LIFO

Each method produces different income results, depend-
ing on the trend of price levels at the time. In times of infla-
tion, when prices are rising, LIFO will produce a larger
cost of goods sold and a lower closing inventory. Under
FIFO, the cost of goods sold will be lower and the closing
inventory will be higher. However, in times of falling pri-
ces, the opposite will hold.

Valuing Inventory

The value of your inventory is a major factor in figuring
your taxable income. The method you use to value the in-
ventory is very important.

The following methods, described below, are those

generally available for valuing inventory.

• Cost.
• Lower of cost or market.
• Retail.

Goods that cannot be sold. These are goods you can-
not sell at normal prices or they are unusable in the usual
way because of damage,
imperfections, shop wear,
changes of style, odd or broken lots, or other similar cau-
ses. You should value these goods at their bona fide sell-
ing price minus direct cost of disposition, no matter which
method you use to value the rest of your inventory. If
these goods consist of raw materials or partly finished
goods held for use or consumption, you must value them
on a reasonable basis, considering their usability and con-
dition. Do not value them for less than scrap value. For
more information, see Regulations section 1.471-2(c).

Page 14

Publication 538 (January 2022)

!

CAUTION