Electronic deposit

requirement. You
must use electronic funds transfer (EFT) to
make all federal tax deposits. Generally, an EFT
is made using EFTPS, IRS Direct Pay, or your
IRS business tax account. If you don’t want to
use one of these methods, you can arrange for
your tax professional, financial institution, pay-
roll service, or other trusted third party to make
electronic deposits on your behalf. Also, you
may arrange for your financial institution to ini-
tiate a same-day wire payment on your behalf.
EFTPS is a free service provided by the Depart-
ment of the Treasury. Payments made using IRS
Direct Pay or through your IRS business tax ac-
count are also free. Services provided by your
institution, payroll
tax professional, financial
service, or other third party may have a fee.

To get more information or to enroll in
EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477.
To contact EFTPS using Telecommunications
Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf,
hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, dial
711 and then provide the TRS assistant the
800-555-4477 number above or 800-733-4829.
Additional information about EFTPS is also
available in Pub. 966.

For more information about IRS Direct Pay,
go to IRS.gov/DirectPay. For more information
about making an EFT through your IRS busi-
ness
IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount.

account,

tax

go

to

Caution: If you fail to timely, properly, and fully
make your federal tax deposit, you may be sub-
ject to a failure-to-deposit penalty. EFTPS ac-
cepts same-day payments of $1 million or less if
the payment is submitted before 3:00 p.m. East-
ern time on a business day. If your payment is
more than $1 million, you must submit the de-
posit by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the
date the deposit is due.

Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Gener-
ally, if a due date for performing any act for tax
purposes falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the act is considered to be performed
timely if it is performed no later than the next
day that isn’t a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holi-
day. The term “legal holiday” means any legal
holiday in the District of Columbia. The calen-
dars provided in this publication make the ad-
justments for Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays. But you must make any adjustments
for statewide legal holidays, as discussed later.

Caution: An exception to this rule for certain
excise taxes is noted later under the Excise Tax
Calendar.

Legal holidays. Legal holidays occurring in

2026 are listed below.

• January 1—New Year’s Day
• January 19—Birthday of Martin Luther

King, Jr.

• February 16—Washington’s Birthday
• April 16—District of Columbia Emancipa-

tion Day

• May 25—Memorial Day
• June 19—Juneteenth National Independ-

ence Day

• July 3—Independence Day (observed)
• September 7—Labor Day
• October 12—Indigenous Peoples’ Day

(Columbus Day)

Publication 509 (2026)

• November 11—Veterans Day
• November 26—Thanksgiving Day
• December 25—Christmas Day

Statewide legal holidays. In general, a
statewide legal holiday delays a due date for fil-
ing a return only if the IRS office where you’re
required to file is located in that state. For indi-
viduals, a statewide legal holiday also delays a
due date for filing a return for residents of that
state. A statewide legal holiday doesn’t delay a
due date for making a federal tax deposit.

Penalties and Interest. Whenever possible,
you should take action before the listed due
date. If you’re late, you may have to pay a pen-
alty as well as interest on any overdue taxes.

Be sure to follow all the tax laws that apply to
you. In addition to civil penalties, criminal penal-
ties may be imposed for intentionally not paying
taxes, for intentionally filing a false return, or for
not filing a required return.

Use of private delivery services. You can
use certain private delivery services (PDSs)
designated by the IRS to meet the timely mail-
ing as timely filing/paying rule for tax returns
and payments.

Go to IRS.gov/PDS for the current list of
designated PDSs. For the IRS mailing address
to use if you’re using a PDS, go to IRS.gov/
PDSstreetAddresses. Select the mailing ad-
dress listed on the webpage that is in the same
state as the address to which you would mail
the return without a payment, as shown in the
instructions for your tax return.

The PDS can tell you how to get written

proof of the mailing date.

Caution: PDSs can’t deliver
items to P.O.
boxes. You must use the U.S. Postal Service to
mail any item to an IRS P.O. box address.

General Tax Calendar

This tax calendar has the due dates for 2026
that most taxpayers will need. Employers and
persons who pay excise taxes should also use
the Employer’s Tax Calendar and the Excise Tax
Calendar, later.

Fiscal-year taxpayers. If you file your income
tax return for a fiscal year rather than the calen-
dar year, you must change some of the dates in
this calendar. These changes are described un-
der Fiscal-Year Taxpayers at the end of this cal-
endar.

First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up
of January, February, and March.

January 12

Employees who work for tips.

If you re-
ceived $20 or more in tips during December,
report them to your employer. See Pub. 531,
Reporting Tip Income, for more information
on how to report tips to your employer.

January 15

Individuals.

Make a payment of your esti-
mated tax for 2025 if you didn’t pay your in-
come tax for the year through withholding (or
didn’t pay in enough tax that way). See Form
1040-ES for more information, including how
to make estimated tax payments electroni-
cally. This is the final installment date for
2025 estimated tax payments. However, you
don’t have to make this payment if you file
your 2025 return (Form 1040 or Form
1040-SR) and pay all tax due by February 2,
2026.

Farmers and fishermen.

Pay your esti-
mated tax for 2025. See Form 1040-ES for
more information, including how to make esti-
mated tax payments electronically. You have
until April 15 to file your 2025 income tax re-
turn (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR). If you
don’t pay your estimated tax by January 15,
you must file your 2025 return and pay all tax
due by March 2, 2026, to avoid an estimated
tax penalty.

February 2

Individuals who must make estimated tax
payments.
If you didn’t pay your last in-
stallment of estimated tax by January 15, you
may choose (but aren’t required) to file your
income
tax return (Form 1040 or Form
1040-SR) for 2025 by February 2. Filing your
return and paying all tax due by February 2
prevents any penalty for late payment of the
last installment. If you can’t file and pay your
tax by February 2, file and pay your tax by
April 15.

All businesses.

Give annual information
statements to recipients of certain payments
you made during 2025. You can use the ap-
propriate version of Form 1099 or other infor-
mation return. Form 1099 can be issued elec-
tronically with the consent of the recipient.
Payments that may be covered include the
following.

• Cash payments for fish (or other aquatic
life) purchased from anyone engaged in
the trade or business of catching fish.
• Compensation for workers who aren’t

considered employees (including fishing
boat proceeds to crew members).
• Dividends and other corporate distribu-

tions.
• Interest.
• Rent.
• Royalties.
• Payments of Indian gaming profits to

tribal members.

• Profit-sharing distributions.
• Retirement plan distributions.
• Original issue discount.
• Prizes and awards.
• Medical and health care payments.
• Debt cancellation (treated as payment to

debtor).

• Cash payments over $10,000. See the

Instructions for Form 8300.

See the General
Instructions for Certain
Information Returns for information on what
payments are covered, how much the pay-
ment must be before a statement is required,

3
Estimated tax payments. Payments are due
on the 15th day of the 4th, 6th, 9th, and 12th
months of the corporation’s tax year.

Form 2553. This form is used to choose S cor-
poration treatment. It is due no more than 2
months and 15 days after the beginning of the
tax year the election is to take effect or at any
time during the preceding tax year.

Employer’s Tax Calendar

This tax calendar covers various due dates of
interest to employers. Principally, it covers the
following federal taxes.

• Income tax you withhold from your employ-
ees’ wages or from nonpayroll amounts
you pay out.

• Social security and Medicare taxes (FICA
taxes) you withhold from your employees’
wages and the social security and Medi-
care taxes you must pay as an employer.

• Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax you

must pay as an employer.

The calendar lists due dates for filing returns
and for making deposits of these three taxes
throughout the year. Use this calendar with Pub.
15, which gives the deposit rules.

Forms you may need. The following is a list
and description of the primary employment tax
forms you may need.

1. Form 940, Employer’s Annual Federal Un-
employment (FUTA) Tax Return. This form
is due the last day of the first calendar
month after the calendar year ends. Use it
to report the FUTA tax on wages you paid.

2. Form 941, Employer’s QUARTERLY Fed-
eral Tax Return. This form is due the last
day of the first calendar month after the
calendar quarter ends. Use it to report so-
cial security and Medicare taxes and with-
held income taxes on wages if your em-
ployees aren’t farm workers or household
employees.

3. Form 943, Employer’s Annual Federal Tax
Return for Agricultural Employees. This
form is due the last day of the first calen-
dar month after the calendar year ends.
Use it to report social security and Medi-
care taxes and withheld income taxes on
wages if your employees are farm workers.

4. Form 944, Employer’s ANNUAL Federal

Tax Return. This form is due the last day of
the first calendar month after the calendar
year ends. Certain small employers use it
instead of Form 941 to report social secur-
ity and Medicare taxes and withheld in-
come tax.

5. Form 945, Annual Return of Withheld Fed-
eral Income Tax. This form is due the last
day of the first calendar month after the
calendar year ends. Use it to report in-
come tax withheld on all nonpayroll items.
A list of nonpayroll items is available in the
Instructions for Form 945.

tion is the date for filing forms in the Form 5500
series, for example, Forms 5500, Annual Re-
turn/Report of Employee Benefit Plan, and
5500-EZ, Annual Return of A One-Participant
(Owners/Partners and Their Spouses) Retire-
ment Plan or A Foreign Plan. These employee
benefit plan forms are due by the last day of the
seventh month after the plan year ends. See All
employers under July 31, later. For more infor-
mation on filing these forms, go to IRS.gov/
Form5500.

Extended due dates. If you timely deposit in
full the tax you’re required to report on Form
940, 941, 943, 944, or 945, you may file the re-
turn by the 10th day of the 2nd month that fol-
lows the end of the return period.

Caution: If you’re subject to the semiweekly
deposit rule, use Table 2 near the end of this
publication for your deposit due dates. How-
ever, if you accumulate $100,000 or more of
taxes on any day during a deposit period, you
must deposit the tax by the next business day
instead of the date shown in Table 2.

First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up
of January, February, and March.

During January

All employers. Give your employees their cop-
ies of Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for
2025 by February 2, 2026. If the employee
agreed to receive Form W-2 electronically, have
it posted on a website and notify the employee
of the posting.

January 15

Social security, Medicare, and withheld in-
come tax.
If the monthly deposit rule
applies, deposit the tax for payments made in
December 2025.

Nonpayroll withholding.

If the monthly
deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for pay-
ments made in December 2025.

February 2

All employers.

Give your employees their
copies of Form W-2 for 2025. If an employee
agreed to receive Form W-2 electronically,
have it posted on a website and notify the
employee of the posting.
File Form W-3, Transmittal of Wage and Tax
Statements, along with Copy A of all the Forms
W-2 you issued for 2025.

Payers of nonemployee compensation.
File Form 1099-NEC for nonemployee

compensation paid in 2025.

Payers of gambling winnings.

If you ei-
ther paid reportable gambling winnings or
withheld income tax from gambling winnings,
give the winners their copies of Form W-2G.

Fiscal-year taxpayers. The dates in this cal-
endar apply whether you use a fiscal year or the
calendar year as your tax year. The only excep-

Nonpayroll taxes.

File Form 945 to report
income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpay-
roll items, including backup withholding and

6

withholding on pensions, annuities, IRAs,
gambling winnings, and payments of Indian
gaming profits to tribal members. Deposit or
pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy
of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than
$2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed
return. If you deposited the tax for the year
timely, properly, and in full, you have until
February 10 to file the return.

Social security, Medicare, and withheld in-
come tax.
File Form 941 for the fourth
quarter of 2025. Deposit or pay any undepos-
ited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If
your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can
pay it in full with a timely filed return. If you
deposited the tax for the quarter timely, prop-
erly, and in full, you have until February 10 to
file the return.

Certain small employers.

File Form 944
to report social security and Medicare taxes
and withheld income tax for 2025. Deposit or
pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy
of deposits rule. If your tax liability is $2,500
or more for 2025 but less than $2,500 for the
fourth quarter, deposit any undeposited tax or
pay it in full with a timely filed return. If you
deposited the tax for the year timely, properly,
and in full, you have until February 10 to file
the return.

Farm employers.

File Form 943 to report
social security and Medicare taxes and with-
held income tax for 2025. Deposit or pay any
undeposited tax under the accuracy of de-
posits rule. If your tax liability is less than
$2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed
return. If you deposited the tax for the year
timely, properly, and in full, you have until
February 10 to file the return.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax.

File
Form 940 for 2025. If your undeposited tax is
$500 or less, you can either pay it with your
return or deposit it. If it is more than $500,
you must deposit it. However, if you depos-
ited the tax for the year timely, properly, and
in full, you have until February 10 to file the
return.

February 10

Nonpayroll taxes.

File Form 945 to report
income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpay-
roll items. This due date applies only if you
deposited the tax for the year timely, properly,
and in full.

Social security, Medicare, and withheld in-
come tax.
File Form 941 for the fourth
quarter of 2025. This due date applies only if
you deposited the tax for the quarter timely,
properly, and in full.

Certain small employers.

File Form 944
to report social security and Medicare taxes
and withheld income tax for 2025. This due
date applies only if you deposited the tax for
the year timely, properly, and in full.

Farm employers.

File Form 943 to report
social security and Medicare taxes and with-
held income tax for 2025. This due date ap-
plies only if you deposited the tax for the year
timely, properly, and in full.

Publication 509 (2026)