Table 1.

Examples of Charitable Contributions—A Quick Check

Use the following lists for a quick check of whether you can deduct a contribution. See the rest of this
publication for more information and additional rules and limits that may apply.

Deductible As
Charitable Contributions

Not Deductible As
Charitable Contributions

Money or property you give to:

• Churches, synagogues, temples,
mosques, and other religious
organizations;

• Federal, state, and local

governments, if your contribution is
solely for public purposes (for
example, a gift to reduce the public
debt or maintain a public park);
• Nonprofit schools and hospitals;
• The Salvation Army, American Red Cross, CARE, Goodwill

Industries, United Way, Scouting America, Girl Scouts of America,
Boys and Girls Clubs of America, etc.;

• War veterans’ groups;
• Federally chartered tax-exempt veteran service organizations.

Money or property you give to:

• Civic leagues, social and sports

clubs, labor unions, and chambers of
commerce;

• Foreign organizations (except certain

Canadian, Israeli, and Mexican
charities);

• Groups that are run for personal

profit;

• Groups whose purpose is to lobby for

law changes;

• Homeowners’ associations;
• Individuals;
• Political groups or candidates for

public office.

Expenses paid for a student living with you, sponsored by a qualified
organization

Cost of raffle, bingo, or lottery tickets

Out-of-pocket expenses when you serve a qualified organization as a
volunteer

Dues, fees, or bills paid to country clubs, lodges, fraternal orders, or
similar groups

Tuition

Value of your time or services

Value of blood given to a blood bank

you must have income from sources in Mexico. The limits
described in Limits on Deductions, later, apply and are fig-
ured using your income from Mexican sources.

Your deduction for charitable contributions generally
can’t be more than 60% of your AGI, but in some cases
20%, 30%, or 50% limits may apply.

Israeli charities. Under the United States-Israel income
tax treaty, a contribution to an Israeli charitable organiza-
tion is deductible if and to the extent the contribution
would have been treated as a charitable contribution if the
organization had been created or organized under U.S.
law. To deduct your contribution to an Israeli charity, you
must have income from sources in Israel. The limits de-
scribed in Limits on Deductions, later, apply. The deduc-
tion is also limited to 25% of your AGI from Israeli sources.

Contributions You Can Deduct

Generally, you can deduct contributions of money or prop-
erty you make to, or for the use of, a qualified organization.
A contribution is “for the use of” a qualified organization
when it is held in a legally enforceable trust for the quali-
fied organization or in a similar legal arrangement.

The contributions must be made to a qualified organi-

zation and not set aside for use by a specific person.

If you give property to a qualified organization, you can
generally deduct the fair market value (FMV) of the prop-
erty at the time of the contribution. See Contributions of
Property, later.

Table 1 gives examples of contributions you can and

can’t deduct.

Contributions From Which You
Benefit

If you receive a benefit as a result of making a contribution
to a qualified organization, you can deduct only the
amount of your contribution that is more than the value of
the benefit you receive. Also, see Contributions From
Which You Benefit under Contributions You Can’t Deduct,
later.

If you pay more than FMV to a qualified organization for
goods or services, the excess may be a charitable contri-
bution. For the excess amount to qualify, you must pay it
with the intent to make a charitable contribution.

Example 1. You pay $65 for a ticket to a dinner dance
at a church. Your entire $65 payment goes to the church.
The ticket to the dinner dance has an FMV of $25. When
you buy your ticket, you know its value is less than your
payment. To figure the amount of your charitable contribu-
tion, subtract the value of the benefit you receive ($25)
from your total payment ($65). You can deduct $40 as a
charitable contribution to the church.

4

Publication 526 (2025)
Example 2. At a fundraising auction conducted by a
charity, you pay $600 for a week’s stay at a beach house.
The amount you pay is no more than the fair rental value.
You haven’t made a deductible charitable contribution.

Charity benefit events. If you pay a qualified organiza-
tion more than FMV for the right to attend a charity ball,
banquet, show, sporting event, or other benefit event, you
can deduct only the amount that is more than the value of
the privileges or other benefits you receive.

If there is an established charge for the event, that
charge is the value of your benefit. If there is no estab-
lished charge, the reasonable value of the right to attend
the event is the value of your benefit. Whether you use the
tickets or other privileges has no effect on the amount you
can deduct. However, if you return the ticket to the quali-
fied organization for resale, you can deduct the entire
amount you paid for the ticket.

Caution: Even if the ticket or other evidence of pay-
ment indicates that the entire price of admission for the
special event is a “contribution,” this doesn’t mean you can
deduct the entire amount. If the ticket shows both the price
of admission and the established charge, and the cost of
admission exceeds the established charge, you can de-
duct the difference between the two amounts.

Example. You pay $40 to see a special showing of a
movie for the benefit of a qualified organization. Printed on
the ticket is “Contribution—$40.” If the regular price for the
movie is $8, your contribution is $32 ($40 payment − $8
regular price).

State or local tax credit. If you make a payment or
transfer property to or for the use of a qualified organiza-
tion and receive or expect to receive a state or local tax
credit in return, then the amount treated as a charitable
contribution deduction is reduced by the amount of the
state or local tax credit you receive or expect to receive in
consideration for your payment or transfer, but an excep-
tion may apply. If an exception doesn’t apply, you must re-
duce your charitable contribution deduction even if you
can’t claim the state tax credit in the year.

Exception. If the state or local tax credit you receive
or expect to receive doesn’t exceed 15% of your payment
amount or 15% of the FMV of the transferred property,
then your charitable contribution deduction isn’t reduced.

Example 1. You make a cash contribution of $1,000
to a qualified organization. In return for your payment, you
receive or expect to receive a state tax credit of 70% of
your $1,000 contribution. The amount of your charitable
contribution is reduced by $700 (70% of $1,000). The re-
sult is your charitable contribution deduction can’t exceed
$300 ($1,000 donation − $700 state tax credit). The re-
duction applies even if you can’t claim the state tax credit
for that year. Your deductible charitable contribution is
$300. Your total contributions may still be subject to limita-
tions. See Limits on Deductions, later.

expect to receive a state tax credit of 10% of the FMV of
the painting. The state tax credit is $10,000 (10% of
$100,000). The amount of your state tax credit does not
exceed 15% of the FMV of the painting. As a result, your
charitable contribution deduction is not reduced. Your de-
ductible charitable contribution for your noncash contribu-
tion is $100,000. However, your total contributions may
still be subject to limitations and substantiation require-
ments. See Limits on Deductions and Noncash Contribu-
tions, later.

State or local tax deduction. If you make a payment or
transfer property to a qualified organization and receive or
expect to receive a state or local tax deduction in return,
then the amount of your charitable contribution deduction
to the organization may be reduced in some circumstan-
ces. If the amount of the state or local tax deduction ex-
ceeds the amount of your cash contribution or the FMV of
the transferred property, then your charitable contribution
deduction is reduced. However, if the amount of the state
or local tax deduction doesn’t exceed the amount of your
payment or the FMV of the transferred property, then no
reduction is necessary.

Example 1. You make a cash contribution of $1,000
to a qualified organization. Under state law, you are enti-
tled to receive a state tax deduction of $1,000 in return for
your payment. The amount of your charitable contribution
deduction isn’t reduced. Your charitable contribution de-
duction is $1,000. However, your total contributions may
still be subject to limitations. See Limits on Deductions,
later.

Membership fees or dues. You may be able to deduct
membership fees or dues you pay to a qualified organiza-
tion. However, you can deduct only the amount that is
more than the value of the benefits you receive.

You can’t deduct dues, fees, or assessments paid to
country clubs and other social organizations. They aren’t
qualified organizations.

Certain membership benefits can be disregarded.
Both you and the organization can disregard the following
membership benefits if you get them in return for an an-
nual payment of $75 or less.

1. Any rights or privileges that you can use frequently

while you are a member, such as:

a. Free or discounted admission to the organization’s

facilities or events,

b. Free or discounted parking,

c. Preferred access to goods or services, and

d. Discounts on the purchase of goods and services.

But, item (1) doesn’t include rights to purchase
tickets for seating at an athletic event in an athletic
stadium of a college or university as a result of a con-
tribution to such institution.

Example 2. You donate a painting to a qualified or-
ganization. At the time of the donation, the painting has an
FMV of $100,000. In return for the painting, you receive or

2. Admission, while you are a member, to events open

only to members of the organization if the organization
reasonably projects that the cost per person

Publication 526 (2025)

5
Contributions From Which You Benefit under Contribu-
tions You Can Deduct, earlier. These contributions include
the following.

• Contributions to a college or university if the amount
paid is to (or for the benefit of) a college or university
in exchange for tickets (or the right to buy tickets) to an
athletic event in an athletic stadium of the college or
university.

• Contributions from which you receive or expect to re-

ceive a credit or deduction against state or local taxes
unless an exception applies. See State or local tax
credit and State or local tax deduction, earlier.

• Contributions for lobbying. This includes amounts you
earmark for use in, or in connection with, influencing
specific legislation.

• Contributions to a retirement home for room, board,
maintenance, or admittance. Also, if the amount of
your contribution depends on the type or size of apart-
ment you will occupy, it isn’t a charitable contribution.
• Costs of raffles, bingo, lottery, etc. You can’t deduct as
a charitable contribution amounts you pay to buy raffle
or lottery tickets or to play bingo or other games of
chance. For information on how to report gambling
winnings and losses, see Expenses You Can Deduct
in Pub. 529.

• Dues to fraternal orders and similar groups. However,
see Membership fees or dues under Contributions
From Which You Benefit, earlier.

• Tuition, or amounts you pay instead of tuition. You

can’t deduct as a charitable contribution amounts you
pay as tuition even if you pay them for children to at-
tend parochial schools or qualifying nonprofit daycare
centers. You also can’t deduct any fixed amount you
must pay in addition to, or instead of, tuition to enroll in
a private school, even if it is designated as a “dona-
tion.”

• Contributions connected with split-dollar insurance ar-
rangements. You can’t deduct any part of a contribu-
tion to a qualified organization if, in connection with
the contribution, the organization directly or indirectly
pays, has paid, or is expected to pay any premium on
any life insurance, annuity, or endowment contract for
which you, any member of your family, or any other
person chosen by you (other than a qualified charita-
ble organization) is a beneficiary.

Example. You donate money to a qualified organi-
zation. The charity uses the money to purchase a
cash value life insurance policy. The beneficiaries un-
der the insurance policy include members of your fam-
ily. Even though the charity may eventually get some
benefit out of the insurance policy, you can’t deduct
any part of the donation.

IRA, to certain qualified organizations. You must have
been at least age 70^1/2 when the distribution was made.
Your total QCDs for the year can’t be more than $108,000.
If all the requirements are met, a QCD may be nontaxable;
however, if the QCD is nontaxable, you can’t claim it as a
charitable contribution deduction. See the Instructions for
Form 1040 and Pub. 590-B, Distributions from Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs), for more information
about QCDs.

Qualified charitable distribution one-time election.
You can elect to make a one-time distribution of up to
$54,000 from an individual retirement arrangement. This
one-time distribution may be made through a charitable
remainder annuity trust, a charitable remainder unitrust, or
a charitable gift annuity if it is funded only by qualified
charitable distributions. For more information, see the In-
structions for Form 1040 and Pub. 590-B.

Value of Time or Services

You can’t deduct the value of your time or services, includ-
ing:
• Blood donations to the American Red Cross or to

blood banks, and

• The value of income lost while you work as an unpaid

volunteer for a qualified organization.

Personal Expenses

You can’t deduct personal, living, or family expenses, such
as the following items.
• The cost of meals you eat while you perform services
for a qualified organization, unless it is necessary for
you to be away from home overnight while performing
the services.

• Adoption expenses, including fees paid to an adoption
agency and the costs of keeping a child in your home
before the adoption is final. However, you may be able
to claim a tax credit for these expenses. Also, you may
be able to exclude from your gross income amounts
paid or reimbursed by your employer for your adoption
expenses. See Form 8839, Qualified Adoption Expen-
ses, and its instructions, for more information.

Appraisal Fees

You can’t deduct as a charitable contribution any fees you
pay to find the FMV of donated property.

Contributions to Donor-Advised
Funds

Qualified Charitable Distributions

A qualified charitable distribution (QCD) is a distribution
made directly by the trustee of your individual retirement
arrangement (IRA), other than an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE

You can’t deduct a contribution to a donor-advised fund if:
• The qualified organization that sponsors the fund is a
war veterans’ organization, a fraternal society, or a
nonprofit cemetery company; or

10

Publication 526 (2025)