of the payment is either engaged in business as a broker
or dealer in securities or an FI that engages in significant
activities at an office or branch located outside the United
States.

A payment is made outside the United States if you
complete the acts necessary to effect the payment outside
the United States. However, an amount paid by a bank or
other FI on a deposit or account will usually be treated as
paid at the branch or office where the amount is credited
unless the other requirements of Regulations section
1.6049-5(e)(2) are met with respect to the branch or of-
fice, unless the amount is collected by the FI as an agent
of the payee.

If a payment is made outside the United States with re-
spect to an offshore obligation, a payee may give you
documentary evidence, rather than a Form W-8, to estab-
lish that the payee is a foreign person. See Regulations
section 1.6049-5(c)(1) for the requirements for documen-
tary evidence for offshore obligations. For accounts
opened on or after July 1, 2014, through December 31,
2014, you may use the rules regarding the use of docu-
mentary evidence under Regulations sections 1.6049-5(c)
(1) and (c)(4) as in effect prior to the issuance of the tem-
porary regulations.

You may rely on documentary evidence given to you by
an NQI or a flow-through entity with its Form W-8IMY. This
rule applies even though you make the payment to an NQI
or flow-through entity in the United States. In most cases,
the NQI or flow-through entity that gives you documentary
evidence will also have to give you a withholding state-
ment, discussed later.

Documentary evidence. You may apply a reduced
rate of withholding to income from marketable securities
(discussed earlier) paid outside the United States for
chapter 3 purposes with respect to an offshore obligation
if the beneficial owner gives you documentary evidence in
place of a Form W-8. To claim treaty benefits, the docu-
mentary evidence must be one of the following.

1. A certificate of residence that:

a. Is issued by a tax official of the treaty country of

which the foreign beneficial owner claims to be a
resident,

b. States that the person has filed its most recent in-
come tax return as a resident of that country, and

c. Is issued within 3 years before it is presented to

you.

2. Documentation for an individual that:

a. Includes the individual’s name, address, and pho-

tograph;

b. Is an official document issued by an authorized

governmental body; and

c. Is issued no more than 3 years prior to being pre-

sented to you.

3. Documentation for an entity that:

a. Includes the name of the entity,

b. Includes the address of its principal office in the

treaty country, and

c. Is an official document issued by an authorized

governmental body.

In addition to the documentary evidence, a foreign ben-
eficial owner that is an entity must provide a statement
that it derives the income for which it claims treaty benefits
and that it meets one or more of the tests set forth in an
LOB article, if any (or similar provision), contained in the
applicable treaty and must identify the specific test in the
LOB article under which it qualifies for benefits. In the
case of a withholdable payment made to an entity, you
must also obtain the applicable documentation to estab-
lish that withholding does not apply under chapter 4.

Form W-8BEN. This form is used by a foreign individual
to:

• Establish foreign status;
• Claim that such individual is the beneficial owner of
the income for which the form is being furnished or a
partner in a partnership subject to withholding under
section 1446(a) or a transferee of an interest in a part-
nership under section 1446(f); and

• If applicable, claim a reduced rate of, or exemption

from, withholding under an income tax treaty.

A withholding agent, in some cases, may substitute its

own form for a Form W-8BEN for individuals.

Form W-8BEN may also be used to claim that the for-
eign individual is exempt from Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding for income that is not subject to chap-
ter 3 withholding and is not a withholdable payment. For
example, a foreign person may provide a Form W-8BEN to
a broker to establish that the gross proceeds from the sale
of securities are not subject to Form 1099 reporting or
backup withholding.

Date of birth requirement for certain account hold-
ers. If you are a U.S. office or branch of a depository insti-
tution, custodial institution, investment entity, or specified
insurance company (each as defined in Regulations sec-
tion 1.1471-5(e)) documenting an
individual account
holder (as defined in Regulations section 1.1471-5(a)(3))
of an account that is a financial account (as defined in
Regulations section 1.1471-5(b)), you must obtain the in-
dividual account holder’s date of birth on the Form
W-8BEN in order for the form to not be invalid for a pay-
ment of U.S. source income reportable on Form 1042-S. If
the individual’s date of birth is not provided on the Form
W-8BEN, the form is still valid if you otherwise have the
date of birth in your account files for the account holder or
you obtain the date of birth on a written statement (includ-
ing a written statement transmitted by email) from the ac-
count holder and associate the written statement with the
Form W-8BEN. See the related foreign TIN requirement
discussed under Foreign TIN requirement for account
holders, later, which also generally applies with respect to
accounts described in this paragraph.

16

Publication 515 (2026)
Dividend Equivalents

Gains

Dividend equivalent payments are treated as U.S. source
dividends such that withholding under chapter 3 may ap-
ply. Dividend equivalent payments are withholdable pay-
ments except when an exception applies for chapter 4
purposes. Dividend equivalent payments are divided into
three income code reporting categories.

1. Substitute dividends that are dividend equivalents (in-

come code 34 or 53).

2. Dividend equivalents with respect to transactions that
are section 871(m) transactions as a result of combin-
ing transactions under Regulations section
1.871-15(n) (income code 56).

3. All other dividend equivalents (income code 40).

Note: Because a dividend equivalent is determined on a
gross basis, there may be a payment for reporting purpo-
ses even when there is no transfer of funds. See Regula-
tions section 1.871-15(i).

Amounts Paid to Qualified Securities
Lenders (QSLs)

A withholding agent that makes substitute dividend pay-
ments to a QSL may apply the transition rules described in
Notice 2010-46, Part III, C, D and E, for payments made
before January 1, 2027, which do not include the credit
forward provisions. See Notice 2024-44, 2024-25 I.R.B.
1737, available at IRS.gov/irb2024-25_IRB#NOT-2024-44.

Amounts Paid to QDDs

A withholding agent that makes a payment to a QI that is
acting as a QDD is not required to withhold on the follow-
ing payments if the withholding agent can reliably asso-
ciate the payment with a valid QI withholding certification
that satisfies the documentation requirements.

1. A payment with respect to a potential section 871(m)
transaction that is not an underlying security (see
Regulations section 1.871-15(a)(12) and (15) for the
definitions of potential section 871(m) transaction and
underlying security).

2. A payment of a dividend equivalent.

3. A payment of a dividend received by the QDD in its

equity derivatives dealer capacity prior to January 1,
2027.

All other payments to a QDD, including dividends not
received in its equity derivatives dealer capacity and any
other U.S. source FDAP payments in any capacity, remain
subject to withholding to the extent required under the
general withholding rules.

For more information on amounts paid to QDDs, see
Regulations section 1.1441-1(b)(4)(xxii) and Notice
2024-44.

You generally do not need to withhold under chapter 3 or 4
on any gain from the sale of real or personal property be-
cause it is not FDAP income. However, see U.S. Real
Property Interest, later.

Capital gains (income code 9). You must withhold at
30%, or if applicable, a reduced treaty rate, on the gross
amount of the following items.
• Gains on the disposal of timber, coal, or domestic iron
ore with a retained economic interest, unless an elec-
tion is made to treat those gains as income effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business.

• Gains on contingent payments received from the sale
or exchange after October 4, 1966, of patents, copy-
rights, secret processes and formulas, goodwill, trade-
marks, trade brands, franchises, and other like prop-
erty.

• Gains on certain transfers of all substantial rights to, or
an undivided interest in, patents if the transfers were
made before October 5, 1966.

• Certain gains from the sale or exchange of original is-
sue discount obligations issued after March 31, 1972.
For more on withholding on original issue discount ob-
ligations, see Interest, earlier.

If you do not know the amount of the gain, you must
withhold an amount necessary to ensure that the tax with-
held will not be less than 30% of the recognized gain. The
amount to be withheld, however, must not be more than
30% of the amount payable because of the transaction.

Unless you have reason to believe otherwise, you may
rely upon the written statement of the person entitled to
the income as to the amount of gain. The Form W-8 or
documentary evidence must show the beneficial owner’s
basis in the property giving rise to the gain.

Tax treaties. Many tax treaties exempt certain types of
gains from U.S. income tax. Be sure to carefully check the
provision of the treaty that applies before allowing an ex-
emption from withholding.

Royalties

In general, you must withhold tax under chapter 3 on the
payment of royalties from sources in the United States.
However, certain types of royalties are given reduced
rates or exemptions under some tax treaties. Accordingly,
these different types of royalties are treated as separate
categories for withholding purposes. For chapter 4 purpo-
ses, royalties are nonfinancial payments and are therefore
excluded as withholdable payments.

Caution: Most treaties have more than one withholding
rate on royalties, which varies by the classification of the
payment in that treaty. Be sure to check your particular
treaty for the specific rate that applies to you.

Industrial royalties (income code 10). This category of
income includes royalties for the use of, or the right to use,

46

Publication 515 (2026)
patents, trademarks, secret processes and formulas,
goodwill, franchises, “know-how,” and similar rights. It may
also include payments for the use of, or right to use, indus-
trial, commercial, and scientific equipment, when this is in-
cluded in the treaty definition of royalties.

Motion picture or television copyright royalties (in-
come code 11). This category refers to royalties paid for
the use of motion picture and television copyrights.

Other royalties (for example, copyright, software,
broadcasting, endorsement payments) (income code
12). This category refers to the royalties paid for the use
of copyrights on books, periodicals, articles, etc., except
motion picture and television copyrights.

Real Property Income and Natural
Resources Royalties (Income Code 14)

You must withhold tax under chapter 3 on income (such as
rents and royalties) from real property located in the Uni-
ted States and held for the production of income, unless
the foreign payee elects to treat this income as effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business. If the foreign
payee chooses to treat this income as effectively connec-
ted, the payee must give you Form W-8ECI (discussed
earlier). This real property income includes royalties from
mines, wells, or other natural deposits, as well as ordinary
rents for the use of real property. For chapter 4 purposes,
income from real property is either a nonfinancial payment
(and therefore not a withholdable payment) or is excluded
as a withholdable payment because it is ECI. For with-
holding that applies to the disposition of USRPI, see U.S.
Real Property Interest, later.

Pensions, Annuities, and Alimony (Income
Code 15)

The following rules apply to withholding on pensions, an-
nuities, and alimony of foreign payees.

Pensions and annuities. In most cases, you must with-
hold tax on the gross amount of pensions and annuities
that you pay that are from sources within the United
States. This includes amounts paid under an annuity con-
tract issued by a foreign branch of a U.S. life insurance
company.

Most tax treaties provide an exemption from tax on
non-government pensions and annuities. See the specific
treaty rules for government pensions. The exemption may
not apply to lump-sum payments. See, for example, Article
17(2) of the United States–United Kingdom income tax
treaty. In addition, it does not apply to payments treated as
deferred compensation, which is often treated as income
from employment.

For purposes of chapter 3 withholding, in the absence
of a treaty exemption, you must withhold at the statutory
rate of 30% on the entire distribution that is from sources
within the United States. You may, however, apply with-
holding at graduated rates to the part of a distribution that
arises from the performance of services in the United
States after December 31, 1986.

Employer contributions to a defined benefit plan cover-
ing more than one individual are not made for the benefit
of a specific participant, but are made based on the total
liabilities to all participants. All funds held under the plan
are available to provide benefits to any participant. If the
distribution is from such a plan, you can use the method in
Revenue Procedure 2004-37 to allocate the distribution to
sources in the United States.

The withholding rules that apply to payments to foreign
persons generally take precedence over any other with-
holding rules that would apply to distributions from quali-
fied plans and other qualified retirement arrangements.

Foreign pension plans are exempt from applying with-
holding under chapter 4 when they are exempt beneficial
owners under Regulations section 1.1471-6(f). A payment
from a U.S. pension plan to a foreign individual beneficiary
in the plan is not subject to withholding under chapter 4.

No withholding. Do not withhold tax on an annuity pay-
ment to a nonresident alien if, at the time of the first pay-
ment from the plan, 90% or more of the employees eligible
for benefits under the plan are citizens or residents of the
United States and the payment is:

1. For the nonresident’s personal services performed

outside the United States; or

2. For personal services by a nonresident individual

present in the United States for 90 days or less during
each tax year, whose pay for those services did not
exceed $3,000, and the personal services were per-
formed for:

a. A nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership,
or foreign corporation not engaged in a trade or
business in the United States; or

b. An office or place of business of a U.S. resident or
citizen that was maintained outside the United
States.

If the payment otherwise qualifies under these rules,
but less than 90% of the employees eligible for benefits
are citizens or residents of the United States, you still
need not withhold tax on the payment if:

• The recipient is a resident of a country that gives a

substantially equal exclusion to U.S. citizens and resi-
dents, or

• The recipient is a resident of a beneficiary developing

country under the Trade Act of 1974.

The foreign person entitled to the payments must pro-
vide you with a Form W-8BEN that contains the TIN of the
foreign person.

Alimony payments. In most cases, alimony payments
made by U.S. resident aliens to nonresident aliens are tax-
able and subject to chapter 3 withholding whether the re-
cipients are residing abroad or are temporarily present in
the United States.

Many tax treaties, however, provide for an exemption
from withholding for alimony payments. See Tax Treaties,
later, for information about treaty benefits.

Publication 515 (2026)

47