to claim the credit for other de-
pendents. Beginning in 2025, to
be eligible to claim the credit for
other dependents, you, or your
spouse if filing jointly, must have a
valid SSN or ITIN issued on or be-
fore the due date of your return (in-
cluding extensions).

Changes to the adoption credit.
Recent legislation made changes
to the adoption credit. Beginning in
2025, the following changes apply.
• Up to $5,000 of adoption
credit is refundable. Up to
$5,000 of your adoption credit
may be refundable. The
amount of the refundable por-
tion is determined separately
for each eligible child.

• Parity for Indian Tribal gov-
ernments. Tribal govern-
ments now have parity for
special needs adoption deter-
minations. This means that
state government and Indian
Tribal government determina-
tions of special needs are
both recognized for purposes
of the adoption credit. For
more information, see Form
8839, Qualified Adoption Ex-
penses, and its instructions.

for

The adoption credit and the ex-
clusion
employer-provided
adoption benefits are both $17,280
per eligible child
in 2025. The
amount begins to phase out if you
have modified AGI in excess of
$259,190
completely
phased out if your modified AGI is
$299,190 or more.

and

is

in

Election to pay tax on farmland
sale or exchange
install-
ments. If your tax year began after
July 4, 2025, and you sold or ex-
changed qualified farmland to a
qualified farmer after that date, you
can elect to pay the net income tax
liability on the sale or exchange in
four equal installments. For more
information, see the instructions for

in

later

Reminders
important
are
below
Listed
reminders and other items that may
help you file your 2025 tax return.
Many of these items are explained
in more detail
this
publication.
Secure your tax records from
identity theft. Identity theft occurs
when someone uses your personal
information, such as your name,
SSN, or other identifying informa-
tion, without your permission, to
commit fraud or other crimes. An
identity thief may use your SSN to
get a job or may file a tax return us-
ing your SSN to receive a refund.
For more information about identity

Schedule 2
(Form 1040) and
Schedule 3 (Form 1040). Also, see
Form 1062, Deferral of Tax on Gain
From the Sale or Exchange of
to
Qualified Farmland Property
Qualified Farmers, and its instruc-
tions.

taxpayers may elect

Domestic research and experi-
mental expenditures. Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers are allowed to
deduct domestic research and ex-
perimental expenditures. Alterna-
tively,
to
charge
their domestic research
and experimental expenditures to a
capital account and deduct them
ratably over a period of not less
than 60 months (beginning with the
month in which the taxpayers first
from such
realize
expenditures).

the benefits

Health
flexible spending ar-
rangements (health FSAs) un-
der cafeteria plans. For tax years
beginning in 2025, the dollar limita-
tion under section 1251(i) on volun-
tary employee salary reductions for
contributions to health FSAs
is
$3,300.

for

refund

returns
Delayed
claiming the ACTC. The IRS can-
not issue refunds before mid-Feb-
ruary 2026 for returns that properly
claim the ACTC. This time frame
applies to the entire refund, not just
the portion associated with the
ACTC.

Standard mileage
rate. The
2025 rate for business use of a ve-
hicle is 70 cents a mile. The 2025
rate for use of your vehicle to do
volunteer work for certain charita-
ble organizations is 14 cents a
mile. The 2025 rate for operating
expenses for a car when you use it
for medical reasons is 21 cents a
mile.

Modified adjusted gross income
(AGI) limit for traditional IRA
if you
contributions. For 2025,
are covered by a retirement plan at

work, your deduction for contribu-
tions to a traditional IRA is reduced
(phased out) if your modified AGI
is:

• More than $126,000 but less
than $146,000 for a married
couple filing a joint return or a
qualifying surviving spouse,
• More than $79,000 but less

than $89,000 for a single indi-
vidual or head of household,
or

• Less than $10,000 for a mar-

ried individual filing a separate
return.

If you either live with your spouse
or file a
joint return, and your
spouse is covered by a retirement
plan at work but you aren’t, your
deduction is phased out if your
modified AGI
than
$236,000 but less than $246,000. If
your modified AGI is $246,000 or
more, you can’t take a deduction
for contributions to a traditional
IRA. See How Much Can You De-
duct in chapter 9, later.

is more

Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA
For 2025, your
contributions.
Roth IRA contribution limit is re-
duced (phased out) in the following
situations.

• Your filing status is married fil-
ing jointly or qualifying surviv-
ing spouse and your modified
AGI is at least $236,000. You
can’t make a Roth IRA contri-
bution if your modified AGI is
$246,000 or more.

• Your filing status is single,

head of household, or married
filing separately and you didn’t
live with your spouse at any
time in 2025 and your modi-
fied AGI is at least $150,000.
You can’t make a Roth IRA
contribution if your modified
AGI is $165,000 or more.
• Your filing status is married fil-
ing separately, you lived with

your spouse at any time dur-
ing the year, and your modi-
fied AGI is more than zero.
You can’t make a Roth IRA
contribution if your modified
AGI is $10,000 or more. See
Can You Contribute to a Roth
IRA in chapter 9, later.

2026 modified AGI limits. You
can find information about the 2026
contribution and modified AGI lim-
its in Pub. 590-A.

Tax law changes for 2026. When
you figure how much income tax
you want withheld from your pay
and when you figure your estima-
ted tax, consider tax law changes
effective in 2026. For more infor-
mation, see Pub. 505.

Alternative minimum tax (AMT)
exemption amount
increased.
The AMT exemption amount is in-
creased to $88,100 ($137,000 if
married filing jointly or qualifying
surviving spouse; $68,500 if mar-
ried filing separately). The income
levels at which the AMT exemption
begins
in-
creased to $626,350 ($1,252,700 if
married filing jointly or qualifying
surviving spouse).

to phase out have

Updated reporting requirements
for Form 1099-K. Payment card
companies, payment apps, and on-
line marketplaces will be required
to send you a Form 1099-K only if
the amount of your business trans-
actions during the year is more
than $20,000 and the total number
of your transactions is more than
200.

New option for scheduled ap-
pointments at Taxpayer Assis-
tance Centers (TACs). Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers with scheduled
appointments at TACs may choose
to receive appointment confirma-
tions, reminders, and cancellation
notices directly via text message
on their mobile devices.

theft and how to reduce your risk
from it, see chapter 1, later.
Taxpayer identification numbers
(TINs). You must provide the TIN
for each person for whom you
claim certain tax benefits. This ap-
plies even if the person was born in
2025. Generally, this number is the
person’s SSN. See chapter 1, later.
Additional child
tax credit
(ACTC) amount. The maximum
ACTC amount is $1,700 for each
qualifying child.
Premium tax credit (PTC). The
ARP expanded
the PTC by
eliminating the limitation that a tax-
payer’s household income may not

exceed 400% of the federal poverty
line and generally increases the
credit amounts. For more informa-
tion, see Pub. 974 and Form 8962
and its instructions.

Identity verification. The
IRS
launched an improved identity veri-
fication and sign-in process that
enables more people to securely
access and use IRS online tools
and applications. To provide verifi-
cation services, the IRS is using
ID.me, a trusted technology pro-
vider. The new process is one
more step the IRS is taking to en-
sure that taxpayer information is

provided only to the person who le-
gally has a right to the data. Tax-
payers using
the new mo-
bile-friendly verification procedure
can gain entry to existing IRS on-
line services such as the Child Tax
Credit Update Portal, Online Ac-
count, Get Transcript Online, Get
an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN),
and Online Payment Agreement.
IRS applications will
Additional
transition to the new method over
the next year. Each online service
will also provide information that
will instruct taxpayers on the steps
they need to follow for access to

2

Publication 17 (2025)
is outside the United States and Pu-
erto Rico; or

b. You are in military or naval service on
duty outside the United States and
Puerto Rico.

However, if you pay the tax due after the reg-
ular due date (April 15 for most taxpayers), in-
terest will be charged from that date until the
date the tax is paid.

If you served in a combat zone or qualified
hazardous duty area, you may be eligible for a
longer extension of time to file. See Individuals
Serving in Combat Zone, later, for special rules
that apply to you.

Married taxpayers. If you file a joint return,
only one spouse has to qualify for this automatic
extension. If you and your spouse file separate
returns, the automatic extension applies only to
the spouse who qualifies.

How to get the extension. To use this auto-
matic extension, you must attach a statement to
your return explaining what situation qualified
you for the extension. (See the situations listed
under (2), earlier.)

Extensions beyond 2 months. If you can’t file
your return within the automatic 2-month exten-
sion period, you may be able to get an addi-
tional 4-month extension, for a total of 6
months. File Form 4868 and check the box on
line 8.

No further extension. An extension of more
than 6 months will generally not be granted.
However, if you are outside the United States
and meet certain tests, you may be granted a
longer extension. For more information, see Fil-
ing and Payment Due Dates in Pub. 54.

Individuals Serving in
Combat Zone
The deadline for filing your tax return, paying
any tax you may owe, and filing a claim for re-
fund is automatically extended if you serve in a
combat zone. This applies to members of the
Armed Forces, as well as merchant marines
serving aboard vessels under the operational
control of the Department of Defense, Red
Cross personnel, accredited correspondents,
and civilians under the direction of the Armed
Forces in support of the Armed Forces.

Combat zone. A combat zone is any area the
President of the United States designates by
executive order as an area in which the U.S.
Armed Forces are engaging or have engaged in
combat. An area usually becomes a combat
zone and ceases to be a combat zone on the
dates the President designates by executive or-
der. For purposes of the automatic extension,
the term “combat zone” includes the following
areas.

1. The Arabian peninsula area, effective Jan-

uary 17, 1991.

2. The Kosovo area, effective March 24,

1999.

3. The Afghanistan area, effective Septem-

ber 19, 2001.

See Pub. 3 for more detailed information on
the locations comprising each combat zone.

Pub. 3 also has information about other tax ben-
efits available to military personnel serving in a
combat zone.

Extension period. The deadline for filing your
return, paying any tax due, filing a claim for re-
fund, and taking other actions with the IRS is
extended in two steps. First, your deadline is
extended for 180 days after the later of:

1. The last day you are in a combat zone or

the last day the area qualifies as a combat
zone, or

2. The last day of any continuous qualified
hospitalization (defined later) for injury
from service in the combat zone.

Second, in addition to the 180 days, your
deadline is also extended by the number of
days you had left to take action with the IRS
when you entered the combat zone. For exam-
ple, you have 3^1/2 months (January 1–April 15)
to file your tax return. Any days left in this period
when you entered the combat zone (or the en-
tire 3^1/2 months if you entered it before the be-
ginning of the year) are added to the 180 days.
See How Much Extra Time Do These Exten-
sions Give Me? in Pub. 3 for more information.

The rules on the extension for filing your re-
turn also apply when you are deployed outside
the United States (away from your permanent
duty station) while participating in a designated
contingency operation.

Qualified hospitalization. The hospitalization
must be the result of an injury received while
serving in a combat zone or a contingency op-
eration. Qualified hospitalization means:

• Any hospitalization outside the United

States, and

• Up to 5 years of hospitalization in the Uni-

ted States.

See Pub. 3 for more information on qualified

hospitalizations.

How Do I Prepare
My Return?

This section explains how to get ready to com-
plete your tax return and when to report your in-
come and expenses. It also explains how to
complete certain sections of the form.

Electronic returns. For information you may
find useful in preparing an electronic return, see
File Electronically, earlier.

Substitute tax forms. You can’t use your own
version of a tax form unless it meets the require-
ments explained in Pub. 1167.

Form W-2. If you were an employee, you
should receive Form W-2 from your employer.
You will need the information from this form to
prepare your return. See Form W-2 under Credit
for Withholding and Estimated Tax for 2025 in
chapter 4.

Your employer is required to provide or send
Form W-2 to you no later than February 2, 2026.
If it is mailed, you should allow adequate time to
receive it before contacting your employer. If
you still don’t get the form by early February, the
IRS can help you by requesting the form from

your employer. When you request IRS help, be
prepared to provide the following information.

• Your name, address (including ZIP code),

and phone number.

• Your SSN.
• Your dates of employment.
• Your employer’s name, address (including

ZIP code), and phone number.

Form 1099. If you received certain types of in-
come, you may receive a Form 1099. For exam-
ple, if you received taxable interest of $10 or
more, the payer is required to provide or send
Form 1099 to you no later than February 2,
2026 (or by February 17, 2026, if furnished by a
broker). If it is mailed, you should allow ade-
quate time to receive it before contacting the
payer. If you still don’t get the form by February
17 (or by March 2, 2026, if furnished by a
broker), call the IRS for help.

When Do I Report My
Income and Expenses?

You must figure your taxable income on the ba-
sis of a tax year. A “tax year” is an annual ac-
counting period used for keeping records and
reporting income and expenses. You must ac-
count for your income and expenses in a way
that clearly shows your taxable income. The
way you do this is called an accounting method.
This section explains which accounting periods
and methods you can use.

Accounting Periods
Most individual tax returns cover a calendar
year—the 12 months from January 1 through
December 31. If you don’t use a calendar year,
your accounting period is a fiscal year. A regular
fiscal year is a 12-month period that ends on the
last day of any month except December. A
52-53-week fiscal year varies from 52 to 53
weeks and always ends on the same day of the
week.

You choose your accounting period (tax
year) when you file your first income tax return.
It can’t be longer than 12 months.

More information. For more information on
accounting periods, including how to change
your accounting period, see Pub. 538.

Accounting Methods
Your accounting method is the way you account
for your income and expenses. Most taxpayers
use either the cash method or an accrual
method. You choose a method when you file
your first income tax return. If you want to
change your accounting method after that, you
must generally get IRS approval. Use Form
3115 to request an accounting method change.

Cash method. If you use this method, report
all items of income in the year in which you ac-
tually or constructively receive them. Generally,
you deduct all expenses in the year you actually
pay them. This is the method most individual
taxpayers use.

Constructive receipt. Generally, you con-
structively receive income when it is credited to
your account or set apart in any way that makes

12

Chapter 1 Filing Information

Publication 17 (2025)
usually takes about 7 weeks to get an ITIN. En-
ter the ITIN on your tax return wherever an SSN
is requested.

Make sure your ITIN hasn’t expired. See In-
dividual taxpayer identification number (ITIN)
renewal, earlier, for more information on expira-
tion and renewal of ITINs. You can also find
more information at IRS.gov/ITIN.

If you are applying for an ITIN for your-
self, your spouse, or a dependent in or-
der to file your tax return, attach your
completed tax return to your Form W-7. See the
Form W-7 instructions for how and where to file.

You can’t e-file a return using an ITIN in
the calendar year the ITIN is issued;
however, you can e-file returns in the

following years.

ITIN for tax use only. An ITIN is for federal
tax use only. It doesn’t entitle you to social se-
curity benefits or change your employment or
immigration status under U.S. law.

Penalty for not providing social security
number. If you don’t include your SSN or the
SSN of your spouse or dependent as required,
you may have to pay a penalty. See the discus-
sion on Penalties, later, for more information.

SSN on correspondence. If you write to the
IRS about your tax account, be sure to include
your SSN (and the name and SSN of your
spouse, if you filed a joint return) in your corre-
spondence. Because your SSN is used to iden-
tify your account, this helps the IRS respond to
your correspondence promptly.

Presidential Election
Campaign Fund

This fund helps pay for Presidential election
campaigns. The fund also helps pay for pedia-
tric medical research. If you want $3 to go to
this fund, check the box. If you are filing a joint
return, your spouse can also have $3 go to the
fund. If you check the box, your tax or refund
won’t change.

Computations

The following information may be useful in mak-
ing the return easier to complete.

Rounding off dollars. You can round off cents
to whole dollars on your return and schedules. If
you do round to whole dollars, you must round
all amounts. To round, drop amounts under 50
cents and increase amounts from 50 to 99
cents to the next dollar. For example, $1.39 be-
comes $1 and $2.50 becomes $3.

If you have to add two or more amounts to
figure the amount to enter on a line, include
cents when adding the amounts and round off
only the total.

If you are entering amounts that include
cents, make sure to include the decimal point.
There is no cents column on Form 1040 or
1040-SR.

Equal amounts. If you are asked to enter the
smaller or larger of two equal amounts, enter
that amount.

Negative amounts. If you file a paper return
and you need to enter a negative amount, put
the amount in parentheses rather than using a
minus sign. To combine positive and negative
amounts, add all the positive amounts together
and then subtract the negative amounts.

Attachments

Depending on the form you file and the items re-
ported on your return, you may have to com-
plete additional schedules and forms and attach
them to your paper return.

You may be able to file a paperless re-
turn using IRS e-file. There’s nothing to
attach or mail, not even your Forms

W-2. See File Electronically, earlier.

Form W-2. Form W-2 is a statement from your
employer of wages and other compensation
paid to you and taxes withheld from your pay.
You should have a Form W-2 from each em-
ployer. If you file a paper return, be sure to at-
tach a copy of Form W-2 in the place indicated
on your return. For more information, see Form
W-2 in chapter 4.

Form 1099-R. If you received a Form 1099-R
showing federal income tax withheld, and you
file a paper return, attach a copy of that form in
the place indicated on your return.

Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you file a paper re-
turn, attach any forms and schedules behind
Form 1040 or 1040-SR in order of the “Attach-
ment Sequence No.” shown in the upper right
corner of the form or schedule. Then, arrange
all other statements or attachments in the same
order as the forms and schedules they relate to
and attach them last. Don’t attach items unless
required to do so.

Third Party Designee

If you want to allow your preparer, a friend, a
family member, or any other person you choose
to discuss your 2025 tax return with the IRS,
check the “Yes” box in the “Third Party Desig-
nee” area of your return. Also, enter the design-
ee’s name, phone number, and any five digits
the designee chooses as their personal identifi-
cation number (PIN).

If you check the “Yes” box, you, and your
spouse if filing a joint return, are authorizing the
IRS to call the designee to answer any ques-
tions that arise during the processing of your re-
turn. You are also authorizing the designee to:
• Give information that is missing from your

return to the IRS;

• Call the IRS for information about the pro-
cessing of your return or the status of your
refund or payments;

• Receive copies of notices or transcripts re-
lated to your return, upon request; and
• Respond to certain IRS notices about math
errors, offsets (see Refunds, later), and re-
turn preparation.

You aren’t authorizing the designee to re-
ceive any refund check, bind you to anything
liability), or
(including any additional
otherwise represent you before the IRS. If you

tax

want to expand the designee’s authorization,
see Pub. 947.

The authorization will automatically end no
later than the due date (without any extensions)
for filing your 2026 tax return. This is April 15,
2027, for most people.

See your form instructions for more informa-

tion.

Signatures

You must sign and date your return. If you file a
joint return, both you and your spouse must sign
the return, even if only one of you had income.

If you file a joint return, both spouses
are generally liable for the tax, and the
entire tax liability may be assessed

against either spouse. See chapter 2.

Your return isn’t considered a valid return un-
less you sign it in accordance with the require-
ments in the instructions for your return.

You must handwrite your signature on your
return if you file it on paper. Digital, electronic, or
typed-font signatures are not valid signatures
for Forms 1040 or 1040-SR filed on paper.

If you electronically file your return, you can
use an electronic signature to sign your return in
accordance with the requirements contained in
the instructions for your return.

Failure to sign your return in accordance
with these requirements may prevent you from
obtaining a refund.

Enter your occupation. If you file a joint re-
turn, enter both your occupation and your spou-
se’s occupation.

When someone can sign for you. You can
appoint an agent to sign your return if you are:

1. Unable to sign the return because of dis-

ease or injury,

2. Absent from the United States for a contin-
uous period of at least 60 days before the
due date for filing your return, or

3. Given permission to do so by the IRS of-

fice in your area.

Power of attorney. A return signed by an
agent in any of these cases must have a power
of attorney (POA) attached that authorizes the
agent to sign for you. You can use a POA that
states that the agent is granted authority to sign
the return, or you can use Form 2848. Part I of
Form 2848 must state that the agent is granted
authority to sign the return.

Court-appointed conservator, guardian, or
other fiduciary. If you are a court-appointed
conservator, guardian, or other fiduciary for a
mentally or physically incompetent individual
who has to file a tax return, sign your name for
the individual. File Form 56.

Unable to sign. If the taxpayer is mentally
competent but physically unable to sign the re-
turn or POA, a valid “signature” is defined under
state law. It can be anything that clearly indi-
cates the taxpayer’s intent to sign. For example,
the taxpayer’s “X” with the signatures of two wit-
nesses might be considered a valid signature
under a state’s law.

14

Chapter 1 Filing Information

Publication 17 (2025)

TIP

!

CAUTION

TIP

!

CAUTION