How to Apply for a
Certificate of Subordination of Federal Tax Lien

A Certificate of Subordination under Internal Revenue Code
Section 6325(d)(1) and 6325(d)(2) allows a named creditor to
move their junior creditor position ahead of the United States’
position for the property named in the certificate. For How to
Apply for a Certificate of Subordination of Federal Estate Tax
Lien Under Section 6325(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code use
Publication 1153.

1. Complete Form 14134, Application for Certificate of
Subordination of Federal Tax Lien, attached with this
publication.

2. Mail the completed Form 14134 and the appropriate

attachments to:
IRS Advisory Consolidated Receipts
7940 Kentucky Drive, Stop 2850F
Florence, KY 41042
(Refer to Publication 4235, Collection Advisory Group
Addresses, for additional contact information.)

If you have any questions, contact the Advisory Consolidated
Receipts Office at 859-594-6090.

If you want to know how much you owe in order to pay the
lien(s) in full, call 1-800-913-6050, visit the nearest Taxpayer
Assistance Center, or contact the revenue officer assigned to
your case.

Important!
Please submit your application at least 45 days before the
transaction date that the certificate of subordination is needed.
Doing so will allow sufficient time for review, determination,
notification and the furnishing of any applicable documents by
the transaction date.

Information Required on the Application

Section 1 - Taxpayer Information

1. Enter the name and address of the individual(s) or business
as it appears on the Notice(s) of Federal Tax Lien (NFTL). A
second name line is provided if needed.

2. Enter, if known, the last 4 digits of the social security

number (SSN) or full employer identification number as it
appears on the NFTL.

3. Enter, if known and if applicable, the last 4 digits of any

spousal SSN (secondary SSN) associated with the tax debt
listed on the NFTL.

4. Provide a daytime phone number and a fax number.

Section 2 - Applicant Information

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 2 if you are both
the taxpayer and the applicant. If you are not the taxpayer,
attach a copy of the NFTL.

2. If you have checked the box indicating that you are the

taxpayer and your information is the same as listed on the
NFTL, enter “same as taxpayer” on the name line.

3. If you are not the taxpayer or you are the taxpayer but your
information is no longer the same as the information on the

Notice of Federal Tax Lien, enter your name (include any
name changes), current address, daytime phone number
and fax number.

4. If you are not the taxpayer, enter in the box next to “Name”
your relationship to the taxpayer (e.g. parent, uncle, sister,
no relation, etc).

Section 3 - Property Owner

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 3 if you are both

the property owner and the applicant.

2. Enter the name of the property owner. Or if you have

checked the box indicating you are both the applicant and
the property owner, enter, “same as applicant”.

3. Enter the property owner’s relationship to the taxpayer (e.g.

taxpayer, parent, no relation, etc.).

Section 4 - Attorney/Representative Information

This section is used to list the taxpayer’s representative or a
representative of a party other than the taxpayer, such as the
lender, needing to receive information from the IRS. However,
you do not need a representative to request discharge of the
federal tax lien.

1. Check the box on the first line of Section 4 if you are

attaching a Form 8821 (Tax Information Authority) or Form
2848 (Power of Attorney) with your application. If you
are attaching one of these forms, please make sure it is
completely filled out, signed, and dated. You must provide
one of these forms if the representative represents an
interest other than the taxpayer.

2. Enter the name, address, phone number, and fax number

of your representative in this action. The IRS will work with
you and your representative to process your application.
Or enter “NA” on the name line if you are not using a
representative.

3. Enter whose interest the representative represents (e.g.
taxpayer, lender, title company, etc.). This allows the IRS
to determine what information can be shared with the
representative.

Section 5 – Lender/Finance Company Information

1. Enter the company name, contact name, phone number,
and fax number for the lender you are requesting the
United States subordinate its interest to.

2. Enter the type of transaction. For example, a loan

consolidation or refinance often prompts a subordination
request.

Section 6 – Monetary Information

1. Enter the amount of your existing or outstanding financing.

2. Enter the amount of new financing you are seeking.

3. Enter the amount anticipated being paid toward the United
States’ interest (For applications requested under 6325(d)
(1) only).

Publication 784 (Rev. 12-2022) Catalog Number 46756T Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Services www.irs.gov
Section 7 - Basis for Subordination

A subordination may be granted under Internal Revenue Code
(IRC) 6325(d)(1) or 6325(d)(2). Review the information below
and select the section which best applies to your subordination
request. If the IRS does not agree with your selection after its
review, an explanation of the decision will be provided.

6325(b)(1) – a subordination may be issued under this section
if you pay an amount equal to the lien or interest to which
the certificate subordinates the lien of the United States. The
following example uses an 80% loan to value and a 3% closing
cost to financing ratio.

Example

Fair Market Value
Refinance
Closing Costs
United States Interest

Current/New
$200,000
$160,000
$4,800
$10,200

Original
N/A
$145,000
N/A
N/A

In this example the United States’ interest is the equity
you obtain from your refinanced loan after paying off the
existing loan of $145,000 and paying the closing costs to
obtain the loan. ($200,000 property value x 80% loan to
value ratio = $160,000 refinance loan amount. $160,000 -
$145,000 loan payoff = $15,000 potential equity. $160,000
x 3% = $4800 closing costs to obtain the loan. $15,000
potential equity - $4,800 closing costs = $10,200) The
IRS would ask for $10,200 in return for the United States
subordinating its interest to the refinanced loan. The lien
remains on the property but the refinanced loan has priority
over the lien.

4. 6325(d)(2) – a subordination may be issued under this
section if the IRS determines that the issuance of the
certificate will increase the amount the government realizes
and make collection of the tax liability easier. This might
involve a refinance to a lower interest rate which would,
if the subordination were granted, allow a larger monthly
repayment rate on the tax liability. Or the situation might
be more complex. For example, AAA Auto Sales currently
pays the IRS $2000 per month on a $120,000 tax debt.
Their inventory needs replenishing but their wholesaler is
reluctant to provide added inventory because of the federal
tax lien. AAA requests subordination and provides the IRS
with documentation that an inventory replenishment of 500
cars could allow them to increase their monthly payment
to $3000 as well as increase their pay back rate to bi-
weekly. In this example the United States’ interest would
be second on the new inventory, if the subordination is
granted.

For applications under section 6325(d)(2), complete and
attach a signed and dated statement describing how the
amount the United States may ultimately realize through
this subordination will increase and how collection will be
facilitated by the subordination.

5. 6325(d)(3) – Questions and applications for this
sectionrefer to Publication 1153 for instructions.

Section 8 – Description of Property

1. Enter a detailed description of the collateral you will use
for the loan or other financing. This is the collateral on

which you want the lien interest subordinated to the loan or
financing. If this is real estate, you must provide the legal
description.

2. When the property is real estate include the type of

property. For example, 3-bedroom house; etc. When the
property is personal property include serial or vehicle
numbers, as appropriate. For example, 2002 Cessna twin
engine airplane, serial number AT919000000000X00; etc.

3. Provide the property’s physical address if it is real estate or
provide the physical address where the property is located,
if it is personal property.

4. Check the appropriate box to indicate whether you
attached a copy of the title or deed to the property

Section 9 – Appraisal and Valuations

1. Check the “Attached” box after “Appraisal” to indicate

whether you have attached an appraisal completed by a
disinterested third party. This is typically a professional
appraisal providing neighborhood analysis; description of
the site; description of the improvements; cost approach;
comparable sales; definition of market value; certification;
contingent and limiting conditions; interior and exterior
photos of the property; exterior photos of comparable
sales used; comparable sales location map; sketch of
subject property showing room layout; flood map and
qualifications of the appraiser. This type of appraisal is
not required for a certificate of subordination.

2. Check the appropriate box under the “Or One of the
Following Valuations” section to indicate which type
of property value verification is attached with your
application.

Section 10 − Notices of Federal Tax Lien (NFTLs)

This section is important when the applicant and the taxpayer
are different. If the applicant and the taxpayer are the same, this
section may be skipped.

1. Check the “Attached” box if you have attached copies of

the NFTL with your application.

2. If you checked the “no” box list the System Lien

Identification Number (SLID) found in the top right hand
box of the NFTL document, if available. If you do not have
the numbers enter “unknown” in the first box.

Section 11 − Proposed loan agreement

1. Check the “attached” box if you have attached the
proposed mortgage contract and describe how
subordination is in the best interests of the United States

2. If you checked the “no” box, describe how subordination is

in the best interests of the United States.

Section 12 − Current Title Report

1. Check the “attached” box if you attached the title report.

This is required for subordination.

2. If you checked the “no” box and the title report is not

attached, use the space provided to list any encumbrances
(liens or claims) against the property and whether those
encumbrances are senior to the United States’ lien interest.
Include the name and address of the holder; description
of the encumbrance, e.g., mortgage, state lien, etc.;

Publication 784 (Rev. 12-2022) Catalog Number 46756T Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Services www.irs.gov