4. You change your election and claim a credit for foreign
income taxes that you previously deducted, or you
change your election and claim a deduction for for-
eign income taxes that you previously credited.

5. There is a change in foreign tax liability that affects the
amount of distributions or inclusions under section
951, 951A, or 1293, or affects the application of the
high-tax exception described in section 954(b)(4).

6. For taxes taken into account when accrued but trans-
lated into dollars on the date of payment, the dollar
value of the accrued tax differs from the dollar value of
the tax paid because of fluctuations in the exchange
rate between the date of accrual and the date of pay-
ment. However, no redetermination is required if the
change in foreign tax liability for each foreign country
is solely attributable to exchange rate fluctuations and
is less than the smaller of:

a. $10,000, or

b. 2% of the total dollar amount of the foreign tax ini-
tially accrued for that foreign country for the U.S.
tax year.

In this case, you must adjust your U.S. tax in the tax

No change in U.S. tax liability. If a foreign tax redeter-
mination doesn’t change the amount of U.S. tax due for
any tax year including in instances where the additional
U.S. tax due by reason of the redetermination is elimina-
ted by a carryback or carryover of an unused foreign tax,
you don’t need to file an amended return and may instead
notify the IRS of the redetermination by attaching for each
applicable separate category of income a completed
Schedule C (Form 1116) to the original return for your tax
year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs. See
the Instructions for Schedule C (Form 1116) for additional
information.

You are not required to attach Form 1116 for a tax year
affected by a redetermination if you meet both of the fol-
lowing criteria.

1. The amount of your creditable taxes paid or accrued
during the tax year is not more than $300 ($600 if
married filing a joint return) as a result of the foreign
tax redetermination.

2. You meet the requirements listed under Exemption
from foreign tax credit limit under How To Figure the
Credit, later.

year in which the accrued foreign taxes are paid.

There are other exceptions to this requirement. They

Generally, you must take into account foreign tax rede-

terminations in the tax year to which the tax relates.

Note: If you use the cash method of accounting and
choose to take credits for taxes in the year they are paid
(see Credit for Taxes Paid or Accrued, earlier), and you
pay additional foreign income taxes that relate to a prior
tax year, that is not a foreign tax redetermination. You re-
port those additional foreign income taxes in the tax year
in which you paid the additional taxes.

Notice to the IRS of Redetermination

Change in U.S. tax liability. If any of the above foreign
tax redeterminations occur after you file your tax return,
and the foreign tax redeterminations change the amount
of U.S. tax due for any tax year, you must generally file
Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Re-
turn, or other amended return, to notify the IRS so that
your U.S. tax for the year or years affected can be redeter-
mined. Complete and attach to Form 1040-X (or other
amended return) a revised Form 1116 for the tax year(s)
affected and a statement that contains information suffi-
cient for the IRS to redetermine your U.S. tax liability. See
Contents of statement, later. In some cases, you may not
have to file Form 1040-X or attach Form 1116.

In addition to filing an amended return with Form 1116
and attached statement for your tax year(s) for which your
U.S. tax liability is changed as a result of the foreign tax re-
determination, you must file Schedule C (Form 1116) with
your current-year tax return summarizing the foreign tax
redeterminations that occurred in the current year that re-
late to prior tax years. You must file Schedule C (Form
1116) for each applicable separate category of income.

are discussed later under Due date of notification to IRS.

Contents of statement. The statement must include all
of the following.

• Your name, address, and taxpayer identification num-

ber.

• The tax year or years that are affected by the foreign

tax redetermination.

• The date or dates the foreign taxes were accrued, if

applicable.

• The date or dates the foreign taxes were paid.
• The amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued on each
date (in foreign currency) and the exchange rate used
to translate each amount.

• Information sufficient to determine any interest due
from or owing to you, including the amount of any in-
terest paid to you by the foreign government, and the
dates received.

In the case of any foreign taxes that were not paid be-
fore the date 24 months after the close of the tax year to
which those taxes relate, you must provide the amount of
those taxes in foreign currency and the exchange rate that
was used to translate that amount when originally claimed
as a credit.

If any foreign tax was refunded in whole or in part, you
must provide the date and amount (in foreign currency) of
each refund, the exchange rate that was used to translate
each amount when originally claimed as a credit, and the
exchange rate for the date the refund was received (for
purposes of figuring foreign currency gain or loss under In-
ternal Revenue Code section 988).

Publication 514 (2025)

7
Due date of notification to IRS. If you pay less foreign
tax than you originally claimed a credit for, in most cases,
you must file a notification by the due date (with exten-
sions) of your original return for your tax year in which the
foreign tax redetermination occurred. There is no limit on
the time the IRS has to redetermine and assess the cor-
rect U.S. tax due. If you pay more foreign tax than you
originally claimed a credit for, you have 10 years to file a
claim for refund of U.S. taxes. See Time Limit on Refund
Claims, later.

Exceptions to this due date are explained in the next

two paragraphs.

Multiple redeterminations of U.S. tax liability for
same tax year. Where more than one foreign tax redeter-
mination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability for
the same tax year and those redeterminations occur in the
same tax year or within 2 consecutive tax years, you can
file for that tax year one notification (Form 1040-X with a
Form 1116 and the required statement) that reflects all
those tax redeterminations. If you choose to file one notifi-
cation for multiple redeterminations which, taken together,
increase your U.S. tax liability for the tax year, the due
date for that notification is the due date (with extensions)
for the year in which the first foreign tax redetermination
that increased your U.S. tax liability occurred. On the other
hand, if multiple redeterminations, taken together, de-
crease your U.S. tax liability for the tax year, the due date
for that notification is the applicable due date for filing a
claim for credit or refund for an overpayment of U.S. tax.
However, foreign tax redeterminations with respect to the
tax year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is
required may occur after the due date for providing that
notification. In this situation, you may have to file more
than one Form 1040-X for that tax year.

Additional U.S. tax due eliminated by foreign tax
credit carryback or carryover. If a foreign tax redeter-
mination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability that
would otherwise result in an additional amount of U.S. tax
due, but the additional tax is eliminated by a carryback or
carryover of an unused foreign tax, you do not have to
amend your tax return for the year affected by the redeter-
mination. Instead, you can notify the IRS by attaching
Schedule C (Form 1116) to the original return for the tax
year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurred.

Failure-to-notify penalty. If you fail to notify the IRS of a
foreign tax redetermination and cannot show reasonable
cause for the failure, you may have to pay a penalty.

For each month, or part of a month, that the failure con-
tinues, you pay a penalty of 5% of the tax due resulting
from a redetermination of your U.S. tax. This penalty can-
not be more than 25% of the tax due.

Foreign tax refund. If you receive a foreign tax refund
without interest from the foreign government, you will not
have to pay interest on the amount of tax due resulting
from the adjustment to your U.S. tax for the time before the
date of the refund.

However, if you receive a foreign tax refund with inter-
est, you must pay interest to the IRS up to the amount of

the interest paid to you by the foreign government. The in-
terest you must pay cannot be more than the interest you
would have had to pay on taxes that were unpaid for any
other reason for the same period. Interest is also owed
from the time you receive a refund until you pay the addi-
tional tax due.

Foreign tax imposed on foreign refund. If your for-
eign tax refund is taxed by the foreign country, you cannot
take a separate credit or deduction for this additional for-
eign tax. However, when you refigure the foreign tax credit
taken for the original foreign tax, reduce the amount of the
refund by the foreign tax paid on the refund.

Example. You paid a foreign income tax of $3,000 in
2023, and received a foreign tax refund of $500 in 2025 on
which a foreign tax of $100 was imposed. When you refig-
ure your credit for 2023, you must reduce the $3,000 you
paid by $400.

Time Limit on Refund Claims

You have 10 years to file a claim for refund of U.S. tax if
you find that you paid or accrued a larger foreign tax than
you claimed a credit for. The 10-year period begins the
day after the regular due date for filing the return (without
extensions) for the year in which the taxes were actually
paid or accrued.

You have 10 years to file your claim regardless of
whether you claim the credit for taxes paid or taxes ac-
crued. The 10-year period applies to claims for refund or
credit based on:

1. Fixing math errors in figuring qualified foreign taxes,

2. Reporting qualified foreign taxes not originally repor-

ted on the return, or

3. Any other change in the size of the credit (including
one caused by correcting the foreign tax credit limit).

The special 10-year period also applies to claiming a
credit or to changing from claiming a deduction to claiming
a credit for foreign taxes. See Making or Changing Your
Choice, earlier, under Choosing To Take Credit or Deduc-
tion.

Who Can Take the Credit?

U.S. citizens, resident aliens, and nonresident aliens who
paid foreign income tax and are subject to U.S. tax on for-
eign source income may be able to take a foreign tax
credit.

U.S. Citizens

If you are a U.S. citizen, you are taxed by the United
States on your worldwide income wherever you live. You
are normally entitled to take a credit for foreign taxes you
pay or accrue.

8

Publication 514 (2025)
Taxes Imposed by Sanctioned Countries
(Section 901(j) Income)

You cannot claim a foreign tax credit for income taxes paid
or accrued to any country if the income giving rise to the
tax is for a period (the sanction period) during which:
• The Secretary of State has designated the country as
one that repeatedly provides support for acts of inter-
national terrorism;

• The United States has severed or does not conduct

diplomatic relations with the country; or

• The United States does not recognize the country’s

government, and that government is not otherwise eli-
gible to purchase defense articles or services under
the Arms Export Control Act.

The following countries meet this description for 2025. In-
come taxes paid or accrued to these countries in 2025 do
not qualify for the credit.

• Iran.
• Libya (but see Note, later).
• North Korea.
• Sudan.
• Syria.

Waiver of denial of the credit. A waiver can be granted
to a sanctioned country if the President of the United
States determines that granting the waiver is in the na-
tional interest of the United States and will expand trade
and investment opportunities for U.S. companies in the
sanctioned country. The President must report to Con-
gress, not less than 30 days before the date on which the
waiver is granted, the intention to grant the waiver and the
reason for the waiver.

Note: Effective December 10, 2004, the President gran-
ted a waiver to Libya. Income taxes arising on or after this
date qualify for the credit if they meet the other require-
ments in this publication.

Limit on credit. In figuring the foreign tax credit limit, dis-
cussed later, income from a sanctioned country is a sepa-
rate category of foreign income unless a Presidential
waiver is granted. You must fill out a separate Form 1116
for this income and check box e at the top of the form. Be-
cause no credit is allowed for taxes paid to sanctioned
countries, you would generally complete Form 1116 for
this category only through line 17.

Table 1. Countries Removed From the
Sanction List or Granted Presidential Waiver

Example. You lived and worked in Iran until August,
when you were transferred to Italy. You paid taxes to each
country on the income earned in that country. You cannot
claim a foreign tax credit for the foreign taxes paid on the
income earned in Iran. Because the income earned in Iran
is a separate category of foreign income, you must fill out
a separate Form 1116 for that income. You cannot take a
credit for taxes paid on the income earned in Iran, but that
income is taxable by the United States.

Note: A foreign tax credit may be claimed for foreign
taxes paid or accrued with respect to section 901(j) in-
come if such tax is paid or accrued to a country other than
a sanctioned country. For example, if a U.S. citizen resi-
dent in a nonsanctioned country pays a residence-based
income tax in that country on income derived from busi-
ness activities in a sanctioned country, those foreign taxes
would be eligible for a foreign tax credit. In this situation,
you would continue completing Form 1116, and not stop
at line 17.

Figuring the credit when a sanction ends. Table 1 lists
the countries for which sanctions have ended or for which
a Presidential waiver has been granted. For any of these
countries, you can claim a foreign tax credit for the taxes
paid or accrued to that country on the income for the pe-
riod that begins after the end of the sanction period or the
date the Presidential waiver was granted.

Example. The sanctions against Country X ended on
July 31. On August 19, you receive a distribution from a
mutual fund of Country X income. The fund paid Country
X income tax for you on the distribution. Because the dis-
tribution was made after the sanction ended, you may in-
clude the foreign tax paid on the distribution to figure your
foreign tax credit.

Amounts for the nonsanctioned period. If a sanc-
tion period ends (or a Presidential waiver is granted) dur-
ing your tax year and you are not able to determine the ac-
tual income and taxes for that period, you can allocate
amounts to that period based on the number of days in the
period that fall in your tax year. Multiply the income or
taxes for the year by the following fraction to determine the
amounts allocable to that period.

Number of nonsanctioned days in year
Number of days in year

Example. You are a calendar-year filer and received
$20,000 of income from Country X in 2025 on which you
paid tax of $4,500. Sanctions against Country X ended on

Country

Cuba

Iraq

Libya

Starting date

January 1, 1987

February 1, 1991

January 1, 1987

Sanction period

Ending date

December 21, 2015

June 27, 2004

December 9, 2004*

* Presidential waiver granted for qualified income taxes arising after December 9, 2004.

14

Publication 514 (2025)