Lifetime Care—Advance Payments

You can include in medical expenses a part of a life-care
fee or “founder’s fee” you pay either monthly or as a lump
sum under an agreement with a retirement home. The part
of the payment you include is the amount properly alloca-
ble to medical care. The agreement must require that you
pay a specific fee as a condition for the home’s promise to
provide lifetime care that includes medical care. You can
use a statement from the retirement home to prove the
amount properly allocable to medical care. The statement
must be based either on the home’s prior experience or on
information from a comparable home.

Dependents with disabilities. You can include in medi-
cal expenses advance payments to a private institution for
lifetime care, treatment, and training of your physically or
mentally impaired child upon your death or when you be-
come unable to provide care. The payments must be a
condition for the institution’s future acceptance of your
child and must not be refundable.

Payments for future medical care. Generally, you can’t
include in medical expenses current payments for medical
care (including medical insurance) to be provided sub-
stantially beyond the end of the year. This rule doesn’t ap-
ply in situations where the future care is purchased in con-
nection with obtaining lifetime care of the type described
earlier.

Lodging

You can include in medical expenses the cost of meals
and lodging at a hospital or similar institution if a principal
reason for being there is to receive medical care. See
Nursing Home, later.

You may be able to include in medical expenses the
cost of lodging not provided in a hospital or similar institu-
tion. You can include the cost of such lodging while away
from home if all of the following requirements are met.

1. The lodging is primarily for and essential to medical

care.

2. The medical care is provided by a doctor in a licensed
hospital or in a medical care facility related to or the
equivalent of a licensed hospital.

3. The lodging isn’t lavish or extravagant under the cir-

cumstances.

4. There is no significant element of personal pleasure,
recreation, or vacation in the travel away from home.

The amount you include in medical expenses for lodg-
ing can’t be more than $50 for each night for each person.
You can include lodging for a person traveling with the per-
son receiving the medical care. For example, if a parent is
traveling with a sick child, up to $100 per night can be in-
cluded as a medical expense for lodging. Meals aren’t in-
cluded.

Don’t include the cost of lodging while away from home
for medical treatment if that treatment isn’t received from a

doctor in a licensed hospital or in a medical care facility re-
lated to, or the equivalent of, a licensed hospital or if that
lodging isn’t primarily for or essential to the medical care
received.

Long-Term Care

You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for
qualified long-term care services and certain amounts of
premiums paid for qualified long-term care insurance con-
tracts.

Qualified Long-Term Care Services

Qualified long-term care services are necessary diagnos-
tic, preventive, therapeutic, curing, treating, mitigating, re-
habilitative services, and maintenance and personal care
services (defined later) that are:

1. Required by a chronically ill individual, and

2. Provided pursuant to a plan of care prescribed by a li-

censed health care practitioner.

Chronically ill individual. An individual is chronically ill
if, within the previous 12 months, a licensed health care
practitioner has certified that the individual meets either of
the following descriptions.

1. The individual is unable to perform at least two activi-
ties of daily living without substantial assistance from
another individual for at least 90 days, due to a loss of
functional capacity. Activities of daily living are eating,
toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing, and conti-
nence.

2. The individual requires substantial supervision to be
protected from threats to health and safety due to se-
vere cognitive impairment.

Maintenance and personal care services. Mainte-
nance or personal care services is care which has as its
primary purpose the providing of a chronically ill individual
with needed assistance with the individual’s disabilities
(including protection from threats to health and safety due
to severe cognitive impairment).

Qualified Long-Term Care Insurance
Contracts

A qualified long-term care insurance contract is an insur-
ance contract that provides only coverage of qualified
long-term care services. The contract must:

1. Be guaranteed renewable;

2. Not provide for a cash surrender value or other money
that can be paid, assigned, pledged, or borrowed;

3. Provide that refunds, other than refunds on the death

of the insured or complete surrender or cancellation of
the contract, and dividends under the contract must
be used only to reduce future premiums or increase
future benefits; and

10

Publication 502 (2025)