age, or retirement, or makes payments toward the cost of,
or provides services for, medical care (including social se-
curity and Medicare benefits). If you buy a retirement an-
nuity from an insurance company, you won’t be eligible for
this exemption. Religious opposition based on the teach-
ings of the sect is the only legal basis for the exemption. In
addition, your religious sect (or division) must have existed
since December 31, 1950.

Self-employed. If you’re self-employed and a member
of a recognized religious sect opposed to insurance, you
can apply for exemption by filing Form 4029 to waive all
social security and Medicare benefits.

Employees. The social security and Medicare tax ex-
emption available to the self-employed who are members
of a recognized religious sect opposed to insurance is
also available to their employees who are members of
such a sect. This applies to partnerships only if each part-
ner is a member of the sect. This exemption for employ-
ees applies only if both the employee and the employer
are members of such a sect, and the employer has an ex-
emption. To get the exemption, the employee must file
Form 4029.

An employee of a church or church-controlled organiza-
tion that is exempt from social security and Medicare
taxes can also apply for an exemption on Form 4029.

5. Wages and Other
Compensation

Pub. 15 provides a general discussion of taxable wages.
Pub. 15-B discusses fringe benefits. The following topics
supplement those discussions.

Relocating for Temporary Work
Assignments

If an employee is given a temporary work assignment
away from their regular place of work, certain travel expen-
ses reimbursed or paid directly by the employer in accord-
ance with an accountable plan (see section 5 of Pub. 15)
may be excludable from the employee’s wages. Generally,
a temporary work assignment in a single location is one
that is realistically expected to last (and does in fact last)
for 1 year or less. If the employee’s new work assignment
is indefinite, any living expenses reimbursed or paid by the
employer (other than qualified moving expenses paid to a
member of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty who
moves because of a permanent change of station due to a
military order, or an employee or new appointee of the in-
telligence community (as defined in section 3 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003) (other than a
member of the Armed Forces of the United States) who
moves pursuant to a change in assignment which requires

relocation) must be included in the employee’s wages as
compensation. For the travel expenses to be excludable:
• The new work location must be outside of the city or
general area of the employee’s regular workplace or
post of duty,

• The travel expenses must otherwise be allowed as a

deduction by the employee, and

• The expenses must be for the period during which the

employee is at the temporary work location.

If you reimburse or pay any personal expenses of an
employee during their temporary work assignment, such
as expenses for home leave for family members or for va-
cations, these amounts must be included in the employ-
ee’s wages. See chapter 1 of Pub. 463, Travel, Gift, and
Car Expenses, and section 5 of Pub. 15 for more informa-
tion. These rules generally apply to temporary work as-
signments both inside and outside the United States.

Employee Achievement Awards

Don’t withhold federal income, social security, or Medicare
tax on the fair market value of an employee achievement
award if it is excludable from your employee’s gross in-
come. To be excludable from your employee’s gross in-
come, the award must be tangible personal property given
to an employee for length of service or safety achieve-
ment, awarded as part of a meaningful presentation, and
awarded under circumstances that don’t indicate that the
payment is disguised compensation. Excludable em-
ployee achievement awards also aren’t subject to FUTA
tax.

The exclusion doesn’t apply to awards of cash, cash
equivalents, gift cards, gift coupons, or gift certificates
(other than arrangements granting only the right to select
and receive tangible personal property from a limited as-
sortment of items preselected or preapproved by you).
The exclusion also doesn’t apply to vacations, meals,
lodging, tickets to theater or sporting events, stocks,
bonds, other securities, and other similar items.

Limits. The most that you can exclude for the cost of all
employee achievement awards to the same employee for
the year is $400. A higher limit of $1,600 applies to quali-
fied plan awards. Qualified plan awards are employee
achievement awards under a written plan that doesn’t dis-
criminate in favor of highly compensated employees. An
award can’t be treated as a qualified plan award if the
average cost per recipient of all awards under all of your
qualified plans is more than $400.

If during the year an employee receives awards not
made under a qualified plan and also receives awards un-
der a qualified plan, the exclusion for the total cost of all
awards to that employee can’t be more than $1,600. The
$400 and $1,600 limits can’t be added together to exclude
more than $1,600 for the cost of awards to any one em-
ployee during the year.

Publication 15-A (2026)

11
• A third party that isn’t the employer’s agent.

Depositing and Reporting

Employer or employer’s agent. Sick pay paid by you or
your agent is subject to mandatory federal income tax
withholding. An employer or agent paying sick pay gener-
ally determines the federal income tax to be withheld
based on the employee’s Form W-4. The employee can’t
choose how much federal income tax will be withheld by
giving you or your agent a Form W-4S, Request for Fed-
eral Income Tax Withholding From Sick Pay. Sick pay paid
by an agent is treated as supplemental wages. If the agent
doesn’t pay regular wages to the employee, the agent may
choose to withhold federal income tax at a flat 22% rate,
rather than at the wage withholding rate. See section 7 of
Pub. 15 for guidance on withholding employment taxes
from supplemental wages, including the rules for withhold-
ing federal income tax when wages to an individual ex-
ceed $1 million during the year.

Third party not an agent. Sick pay paid by a third party
that isn’t your agent isn’t subject to mandatory federal in-
come tax withholding. However, an employee may elect to
have federal income tax withheld by submitting Form
W-4S to the third party.

If Form W-4S has been submitted, the third party
should withhold federal income tax on all payments of sick
pay made 8 or more days after receiving the form. The
third party may, at its option, withhold federal income tax
before 8 days have passed.

The employee may request on Form W-4S to have a
specific whole dollar amount withheld. However, if the re-
quested withholding would reduce any net payment below
$10, the third party shouldn’t withhold any federal income
tax from that payment. The minimum amount of withhold-
ing that the employee can specify is $4 per day, $20 per
week, or $88 per month based on the payroll period.

Withhold from all payments at the same rate whether
full or partial payments. For example, if $25 is withheld
from a regular full payment of $100, then $20 (25%)
should be withheld from a partial payment of $80.

Amounts not subject to federal income tax withhold-
ing. The following amounts, whether paid by you or a
third party, aren’t wages and aren’t subject to federal in-
come tax withholding.
• Payments after the employee’s death. Sick pay

paid to the employee’s estate or survivor at any time
after the employee’s death isn’t subject to federal in-
come tax withholding, regardless of who pays it.

• Payments attributable to employee contributions.
Payments, or parts of payments, attributable to em-
ployee contributions made to a sick pay plan with af-
ter-tax dollars aren’t subject to federal income tax
withholding. For more information, see the corre-
sponding discussion under Amounts not subject to so-
cial security, Medicare, or FUTA tax, earlier in this sec-
tion.

This section discusses who is liable for depositing social
security, Medicare, FUTA, and withheld federal income
taxes on sick pay. These taxes must be deposited under
the same rules that apply to deposits of taxes on regular
wage payments. See Pub. 15 for information on the de-
posit rules.

This section also explains how sick pay should be re-

ported on Forms W-2, W-3, 940, and 941 (or Form 944).

Sick Pay Paid by Employer or Agent

If you or your agent (defined earlier in this section) makes
sick pay payments, you deposit taxes and file Forms W-2,
W-3, 940, and 941 (or Form 944) under the same rules
that apply to regular wage payments.

However, any agreement between the parties may re-
quire your agent to carry out responsibilities that would
have otherwise been borne by you. In this situation, your
agent should use its own name and EIN (rather than
yours) for the responsibilities that it has assumed.

Reporting sick pay on Form W-2. You may either com-
bine the sick pay with other wages and prepare a single
Form W-2 for each employee, or you may prepare sepa-
rate Forms W-2 for each employee, one reporting sick pay
and the other reporting regular wages. A Form W-2 must
be prepared even if all of the sick pay is nontaxable (see
Box 12 below). All Forms W-2 must be given to the em-
ployees by January 31.

The Form W-2 filed for the sick pay must include the
employer’s name, address, and EIN; the employee’s
name, address, and social security number (SSN); and
the following information.
Box 1—The amount of sick pay the employee must in-

clude in income.

Box 2—The amount of any federal income tax withheld

from the sick pay.

Box 3—The amount of sick pay subject to employee

social security tax.

Box 4—The amount of employee social security tax

withheld from the sick pay.

Box 5—The amount of sick pay subject to employee

Medicare tax.

Box 6—The amount of employee Medicare tax (includ-
ing Additional Medicare Tax, if applicable) withheld
from the sick pay.

Box 12 (code J)—Any sick pay that was paid by a third
party and wasn’t includible in income (and not shown
in boxes 1, 3, and 5) because the employee contrib-
uted to the sick pay plan. Don’t include nontaxable dis-
ability payments made directly to a state.

Box 13—Check the “Third-party sick pay” box only if

the amounts were paid by a third party.

18

Publication 15-A (2026)