of actual presence in the United States if on those days
you establish that:
• You had a closer connection to a foreign country than

to the United States, and

• Your tax home was in that foreign country.

See Closer Connection to a Foreign Country, earlier.

In determining whether you can exclude up to 10 days,

the following rules apply.

• You can exclude days from more than one period of
presence as long as the total days in all periods are
not more than 10.

• You cannot exclude any days in a period of consecu-
tive days of presence if all the days in that period can-
not be excluded.

• Although you can exclude up to 10 days of presence
in determining your residency starting date, you must
include those days when determining whether you
meet the substantial presence test.

Example. Ivan Ivanovich is a citizen of Russia. Ivan
came to the United States for the first time on January 6,
2025, to attend a business meeting and returned to Rus-
sia on January 10, 2025. Ivan’s tax home remained in
Russia. On March 1, 2025, Ivan moved to the United
States and resided here for the rest of the year. Ivan is
able to establish a closer connection to Russia for the pe-
riod January 6–10, 2025. Thus, Ivan’s residency starting
date is March 1, 2025.

Statement required to exclude up to 10 days of
presence. You must file a statement with the IRS if you
are excluding up to 10 days of presence in the United
States for purposes of your residency starting date. You
must sign and date this statement and include a declara-
tion that it is made under penalties of perjury. The state-
ment must contain the following information (as applica-
ble).
• Your name, address, U.S. taxpayer identification num-

ber (TIN) (if any), and U.S. visa number (if any).
• Your passport number and the name of the country

that issued your passport.

• The tax year for which the statement applies.
• The first and the last day that you were present in the

United States during the year.

• The dates of the days you are excluding in figuring

your first day of residency.

• Sufficient facts to establish that you have maintained

your tax home in, and a closer connection to, a foreign
country during the period you are excluding.

Attach the required statement to your income tax re-
turn. If you are not required to file a return, send the state-
ment to the following address.

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service Center
Austin, TX 73301-0215

You must submit the statement on or before the due
date for filing Form 1040-NR. The due date for filing is dis-
cussed in chapter 7.

If you do not file the required statement as explained
above, you cannot claim that you have a closer connection
to a foreign country or countries. Therefore, your first day
of residency will be the first day you are present in the Uni-
ted States. This does not apply if you can show by clear
and convincing evidence that you took reasonable actions
to become aware of the requirements for filing the state-
ment and significant steps to comply with those require-
ments.

Residency starting date under green card test. If you
meet the green card test at any time during a calendar
year, but do not meet the substantial presence test for that
year, your residency starting date is the first day in the cal-
endar year on which you are present in the United States
as a lawful permanent resident.

If you meet both the substantial presence test and the
green card test, your residency starting date is the earlier
of the first day during the year you are present in the Uni-
ted States under the substantial presence test or as a law-
ful permanent resident.

Residency during the preceding year. If you were a
U.S. resident during any part of the preceding calendar
year and you are a U.S. resident for any part of the current
year, you will be considered a U.S. resident at the begin-
ning of the current year. This applies whether you are a
resident under the substantial presence test or green card
test.

Example. Robert Bach is a citizen of Switzerland.
Robert came to the United States as a U.S. resident for
the first time on May 1, 2024, and remained until Novem-
ber 5, 2024, when Robert returned to Switzerland. Robert
came back to the United States on March 5, 2025, as a
lawful permanent resident and still resides here. In calen-
dar year 2025, Robert’s U.S. residency is deemed to be-
gin on January 1, 2025, because Robert qualified as a
resident in calendar year 2024.

First-Year Choice

If you do not meet either the green card test or the sub-
stantial presence test for 2024 or 2025 and you did not
choose to be treated as a resident for part of 2024, but
you meet the substantial presence test for 2026, you can
choose to be treated as a U.S. resident for part of 2025. To
make this choice, you must:

1. Be present in the United States for at least 31 days in

a row in 2025, and

2. Be present in the United States for at least 75% of the
number of days beginning with the first day of the
31-day period and ending with the last day of 2025.
For purposes of this 75% requirement, you can treat
up to 5 days of absence from the United States as
days of presence in the United States.

10

Chapter 1 Nonresident Alien or Resident Alien?

Publication 519 (2025)
• The special instructions and restrictions for dual-sta-

tus taxpayers in chapter 6 do not apply to you.

closer connection to that foreign country. See Closer Con-
nection to a Foreign Country, earlier.

Note: A similar choice is available if, at the end of the
tax year, one spouse is a nonresident alien and the other
spouse is a U.S. citizen or resident. See Nonresident
Spouse Treated as a Resident, later. If you previously
made that choice and it is still in effect, you do not need to
make the choice explained here.

Making the choice. If you and your spouse are making
this choice, check the box in the Filing Status section of
the Form 1040 or 1040-SR and enter the name of the
dual-status spouse(s) in the entry space, and attach a
statement signed by both spouses to your joint return for
the year of the choice. The statement must contain the fol-
lowing information.

• A declaration that you both qualify to make the choice
and that you choose to be treated as U.S. residents for
the entire tax year.

• The name, address, and TIN (social security number
(SSN) or individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN)) of each spouse. (If one spouse died, include
the name and address of the person who makes the
choice for the deceased spouse.)

You generally make this choice when you file your joint
return. However, you can also make the choice by filing
Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Re-
turn. Attach Form 1040 or 1040-SR and enter “Amended”
across the top of the corrected return. If you make the
choice with an amended return, you and your spouse
must also amend any returns that you may have filed after
the year for which you made the choice.

You must generally file the amended joint return within
3 years from the date you filed your original U.S. income
tax return or 2 years from the date you paid your income
tax for that year, whichever is later.

Last Year of Residency

If you were a U.S. resident in 2025 but are not a U.S. resi-
dent during any part of 2026, you cease to be a U.S. resi-
dent on your residency termination date. Your residency
termination date is December 31, 2025, unless you qualify
for an earlier date, as discussed later.

Earlier residency termination date. You may qualify for
a residency termination date that is earlier than December
31. This date is:

1. The last day in 2025 that you are physically present in
the United States, if you met the substantial presence
test;

2. The first day in 2025 that you are no longer a lawful
permanent resident of the United States, if you met
the green card test; or

3. The later of (1) or (2), if you met both tests.

You can use this date only if, for the remainder of 2025,
your tax home was in a foreign country and you had a

Note: Claiming residency status under an applicable
treaty tiebreaker provision in another country may also
lead to a residency termination date that is earlier than
December 31.

Caution: An LTR who ceases to be a lawful permanent
resident may be subject to special reporting requirements
and tax provisions. See Expatriation Tax in chapter 4.

Termination of residency. For information on your
residency termination date, see Former LTR under Expa-
triation After June 16, 2008 in chapter 4.

De minimis presence. If you are a U.S. resident be-
cause of the substantial presence test and you qualify to
use the earlier residency termination date, you can ex-
clude up to 10 days of actual presence in the United
States in determining your residency termination date. In
determining whether you can exclude up to 10 days, the
following rules apply.
• You can exclude days from more than one period of
presence as long as the total days in all periods are
not more than 10.

• You cannot exclude any days in a period of consecu-
tive days of presence if all the days in that period can-
not be excluded.

• Although you can exclude up to 10 days of presence
in determining your residency termination date, you
must include those days when determining whether
you meet the substantial presence test.

Example. Lola Bovary is a citizen of Malta. Lola came
to the United States for the first time on March 1, 2025,
and resided here until August 25, 2025. On December 12,
2025, Lola came to the United States for vacation and re-
turned to Malta on December 16, 2025. Lola is able to es-
tablish a closer connection to Malta for the rest of 2025
beginning August 25, 2025, when she leaves the United
States. Lola is a resident under the substantial presence
test because Lola was present in the United States for 183
days (178 days for the period March 1 to August 25 plus 5
days in December). However, Lola is able to exclude her
visit to the United States in December in determining her
residency termination date and therefore Lola’s residency
termination date is August 25, 2025.

Residency during the next year. If you are a U.S. resi-
dent during any part of 2026 and you are a resident during
any part of 2025, you will be treated as a resident through
the end of 2025. This applies whether you have a closer
connection to a foreign country than the United States
during 2025, and whether you are a resident under the
substantial presence test or green card test.

Statement required to establish your residency ter-
mination date. You must file a statement with the IRS to
establish your residency termination date. You must sign
and date this statement and include a declaration that it is

12

Chapter 1 Nonresident Alien or Resident Alien?

Publication 519 (2025)
Contingent interest. Portfolio interest does not in-
clude contingent interest. Contingent interest is either of
the following.

1. Interest that is determined by reference to:

• Any receipts, sales, or other cash flow of the

debtor or related person;

• Income or profits of the debtor or related person;
• Any change in value of any property of the debtor

or a related person; or

• Any dividend, partnership distributions, or similar
payments made by the debtor or a related person.
For exceptions, see section 871(h)(4)(C).

2. Any other type of contingent interest that is identified

by the Secretary of the Treasury in regulations.

Related persons. Related persons include the follow-

ing.

• Members of a family, including only brothers, sisters,
half brothers, half sisters, spouse, ancestors (parents,
grandparents, etc.), and lineal descendants (children,
grandchildren, etc.).

• Any person who is a party to any arrangement under-
taken for the purpose of avoiding the contingent inter-
est rules.

• Certain corporations, partnerships, and other entities.
For details, see Nondeductible Loss in chapter 2 of
Pub. 544.

Exception for existing debt. Contingent

interest
does not include interest paid or accrued on any debt with
a fixed term that was issued:

• On or before April 7, 1993; or
• After April 7, 1993, pursuant to a written binding con-
tract in effect on that date and at all times thereafter
before that debt was issued.

Dividend Income

The following dividend income is exempt from the 30%
tax.

Certain dividends paid by foreign corporations.
There is no 30% tax on U.S. source dividends you receive
from a foreign corporation. See Exception under Divi-
dends in chapter 2 for how to figure the amount of U.S.
source dividends. This exemption does not apply to divi-
dend equivalent payments.

Certain interest-related dividends. There is no 30%
tax on interest-related dividends from sources within the
United States that you receive from a mutual fund or other
regulated investment company (RIC). The mutual fund will
designate in writing which dividends are interest-related
dividends.

Certain short-term capital gain dividends. There may
not be any 30% tax on certain short-term capital gain divi-
dends from sources within the United States that you re-

ceive from a mutual fund or other RIC. The mutual fund
will designate in writing which dividends are short-term
capital gain dividends. This tax relief will not apply to you if
you are present in the United States for 183 days or more
during your tax year.

Services Performed for Foreign
Employer

If you were paid by a foreign employer, your U.S. source
income may be exempt from U.S. tax, but only if you meet
one of the situations discussed next.

Employees of foreign persons, organizations, or offi-
ces. Income for personal services performed in the Uni-
ted States as a nonresident alien is not considered to be
from U.S. sources and is tax exempt if you meet all three
of the following conditions.

1. You perform personal services as an employee of or
under a contract with a nonresident alien individual,
foreign partnership, or foreign corporation not en-
gaged in a trade or business in the United States; or
you work for an office or place of business maintained
in a foreign country or territory of the United States by
a U.S. corporation, U.S. partnership, or U.S. citizen or
resident.

2. You perform these services while you are a nonresi-

dent alien temporarily present in the United States for
a period or periods of not more than a total of 90 days
during the tax year.

3. Your pay for these services is not more than $3,000.

If you do not meet all three conditions, your income from
personal services performed in the United States is U.S.
source income and is taxed according to the rules in chap-
ter 4.

If your pay for these services is more than $3,000, the
entire amount is income from a trade or business within
the United States. To find if your pay is more than $3,000,
do not include any amounts you get from your employer
for advances or reimbursements of business travel expen-
ses, if you were required to and did account to your em-
ployer for those expenses. If the advances or reimburse-
ments are more than your expenses, include the excess in
your pay for these services.

A “day” means a calendar day during any part of which

you are physically present in the United States.

Example 1. During 2025, Henry Smythe, a nonresi-
dent alien from a nontreaty country, worked for an over-
seas office of a U.S. partnership. Henry, who uses the cal-
endar year as his tax year, was temporarily present in the
United States for 60 days during 2025 performing per-
sonal services for the overseas office of the partnership.
That office paid Henry a total gross salary of $2,800 for
those services. During 2025, Henry was not engaged in a
trade or business in the United States. The salary is not
considered U.S. source income and is exempt from U.S.
tax.

Publication 519 (2025)

Chapter 3 Exclusions From Gross Income

23