Transportation of
Persons by Air

The tax on transportation of persons by air is
made up of the:

• Percentage tax, and
• Domestic-segment tax.

Percentage tax. A tax of 7.5% applies to
amounts paid for taxable transportation of per-
sons by air. Amounts paid for transportation in-
clude charges for seat selection, premium
economy seating, online booking fee, layover or
waiting time, and movement of aircraft in dead-
head service.

Mileage awards. The percentage tax may
apply to an amount paid (in cash or in kind) to
an air carrier (or any related person) for the right
to provide mileage awards for, or other reduc-
tions in the cost of, any transportation of per-
sons by air. For example, this applies to mileage
awards purchased by credit card companies,
telephone companies, restaurants, hotels, and
other businesses.

Generally, the percentage tax doesn't apply
to amounts paid for mileage awards where the
mileage awards can't, under any circumstan-
ces, be redeemed for air transportation that is
subject to the tax. Until regulations are issued,
the following rules apply to mileage awards.

• Amounts paid for mileage awards that can't
be redeemed for taxable transportation be-
ginning and ending in the United States
aren’t subject to the tax. For this rule, mile-
age awards issued by a foreign air carrier
are considered to be usable only on that
foreign air carrier and not redeemable for
taxable transportation beginning and end-
ing in the United States. Therefore,
amounts paid to a foreign air carrier for
mileage awards aren’t subject to the tax.
• Amounts paid by an air carrier to a domes-
tic air carrier for mileage awards that can
be redeemed for taxable transportation
aren’t subject to the tax to the extent those
miles will be awarded in connection with
the purchase of taxable transportation.
• Amounts paid by an air carrier to a domes-
tic air carrier for mileage awards that can
be redeemed for taxable transportation are
subject to the tax to the extent those miles
won’t be awarded in connection with the
purchase of taxable transportation.

Domestic-segment tax. The domestic-seg-
ment tax is a flat dollar amount for each seg-
ment of taxable transportation for which an
amount is paid. However, see Rural airports,
later. A segment is a single takeoff and a single
landing.

Note. Generally, the tax on each domes-
tic-segment of taxable air transportation increa-
ses annually based on adjustments for inflation.
See the Instructions for Form 720 for the tax
rate.

Charter flights. If an aircraft is chartered,
the domestic-segment tax for each segment of
taxable transportation is figured by multiplying
the tax by the number of passengers transpor-
ted on the aircraft.

Rural airports. The domestic-segment tax
doesn't apply to a segment to or from a rural air-
port. An airport is a rural airport for a calendar
year if fewer than 100,000 commercial passen-
gers departed from the airport by air during the
second preceding calendar year (the 100,000
passenger rule), and one of the following is true:

1. The airport isn't located within 75 miles of
another airport from which 100,000 or
more commercial passengers departed
during the second preceding calendar
year,

2. The airport was receiving essential air

service subsidies as of August 5, 1997, or

3. The airport isn't connected by paved roads

to another airport.

To apply the 100,000 passenger rule to any
airport described in (3) above, only count com-
mercial passengers departing from the airport
by air on flight segments of at least 100 miles.

An updated list of rural airports can be found
on the Bureau of Transportation Statistics web-
site at BTS.gov/Topics/Airlines-and-Airports/
Rural-Airports.

Taxable transportation. Taxable transporta-
tion is transportation by air that meets either of
the following tests.

• It begins and ends either in the United

States or at any place in Canada or Mexico
not more than 225 miles from the nearest
point on the continental U.S. boundary
(this is the 225-mile zone).

• It's directly or indirectly from one port or

station in the United States to another port
or station in the United States, but only if it
isn't a part of uninterrupted international air
transportation.

Round trip. A round trip is considered two
separate trips. The first trip is from the point of
departure to the destination. The second trip is
the return trip from that destination.

Uninterrupted international air transpor-
tation. This means transportation entirely by
air that doesn't begin and end in the United
States or in the 225-mile zone if there isn't more
than a 12-hour scheduled interval between ar-
rival and departure at any station in the United
States. For a special rule that applies to military
personnel, see Exemptions, later.

Transportation between the continental
United States and Alaska or Hawaii. This
transportation is partially exempt from the tax on
transportation of persons by air. The tax doesn't
apply to the part of the trip between the point at
which the route of transportation leaves or en-
ters the continental United States (or a port or
station in the 225-mile zone) and the point at
which it enters or leaves Hawaii or Alaska.
Leaving or entering occurs when the route of
the transportation passes over either the U.S.
border or a point 3 nautical miles (3.45 statute
miles) from low tide on the coastline, or when it
leaves a port or station in the 225-mile zone.
Therefore, this transportation is subject to the
percentage tax on the part of the trip in U.S. air-
space, the domestic-segment tax for each do-
mestic segment, and the tax on the use of inter-
national air travel facilities.

Transportation within Alaska or Hawaii.
The tax on transportation of persons by air ap-
plies to the entire fare paid in the case of flights
between any of the Hawaiian Islands, and be-
tween any ports or stations in the Aleutian Is-
lands or other ports or stations elsewhere in
Alaska. The tax applies even though parts of
the flights may be over international waters or
over Canada, if no point on the direct line of
transportation between the ports or stations is
more than 225 miles from the United States
(Hawaii or Alaska).

Package tours. The air transportation taxes
apply to “complimentary” air transportation fur-
nished solely to participants in package holiday
tours. The amount paid for these package tours
includes a charge for air transportation even
though it may be advertised as “free.” This rule
also applies to the tax on the use of interna-
tional air travel facilities.

Liability for tax. The person paying for taxable
transportation is liable for the tax and, ordinarily,
the person receiving the payment collects the
tax, files the returns, and pays the tax over to
the government. However, if payment is made
outside the United States for a prepaid order,
exchange order, or similar order, the person fur-
nishing the initial transportation provided for un-
der that order must collect the tax.

A travel agency that is an independent
broker and sells tours on aircraft that it charters
must collect the transportation tax, file the re-
turns, and pay the tax over to the government.
However, a travel agency that sells tours as the
agent of an airline must collect the tax and remit
it to the airline for the filing of returns and for the
payment of the tax over to the government. An
independent third party that isn't under the air-
line's supervision or control, but is acting on be-
half of, and receiving compensation from, a
passenger, isn't required to collect the tax and
pay it to the government. For more information
on resellers of air transportation, see Revenue
Ruling
IRS.gov/irb/
2006-43_IRB#RR-2006-52.

2006-52

at

The fact that the aircraft doesn't use public
or commercial airports in taking off and landing
has no effect on the tax. But see Certain heli-
copter uses, later.

For taxable transportation that begins and
ends in the United States, the tax applies re-
gardless of whether the payment is made in or
outside the United States.

If the tax isn't paid when payment for the
transportation is made, the air carrier providing
the initial segment of the transportation that be-
gins or ends in the United States becomes lia-
ble for the tax.

Exemptions. The tax on transportation of per-
sons by air doesn't apply in the following situa-
tions. See Special Rules on Transportation
Taxes, later.

Military personnel on international trips.
When traveling in uniform at their own expense,
U.S. military personnel on authorized leave are
deemed to be traveling in uninterrupted interna-
tional air transportation even if the scheduled in-
terval between arrival and departure at any sta-
tion in the United States is actually more than
12 hours. However, such personnel must buy

28

Chapter 4

Communications and Air Transportation Taxes

Publication 510 (12-2025)
the vessel has completed at least one outward
and one homeward passage. The tax may be
imposed even if a passenger doesn't make both
an outward and a homeward passage as long
as the voyage begins or ends in the United
States.

Passenger. A passenger is an individual car-
ried on the vessel other than the master or a
crew member or other individual engaged in the
business of the vessel or its owners.

Example 1. John Smith works as a guest
lecturer. The cruise line hired John for the bene-
fit of the passengers. Therefore, John is en-
gaged in the business of the vessel and isn't a
passenger.

Example 2. Marian Green is a travel agent.
Marian is taking the cruise as a promotional trip
to determine if it should be offered to the clients
of the travel agency. Marian is a passenger.

Taxable situations. There are two taxable sit-
uations. The first situation involves voyages on
commercial passenger vessels extending over
one or more nights. A voyage extends over one
or more nights if it extends for more than 24
hours. A passenger vessel is any vessel with
stateroom or berth accommodations for more
than 16 passengers.

The second situation involves voyages on a
commercial vessel transporting passengers en-
gaged in gambling on the vessel beyond the ter-
ritorial waters of the United States. Territorial
waters of the United States are those waters
within the international boundary line between
the United States and any contiguous foreign
country or within 3 nautical miles (3.45 statute
miles) from low tide on the coastline. If passen-
gers participate as players in any policy game
or other lottery, or any other game of chance for
money or other thing of value that the owner or
operator of the vessel (or their employee, agent,
or franchisee) conducts, sponsors, or operates,
the voyage is subject to the ship passenger tax.
The tax applies regardless of the duration of the
voyage. A casual, friendly game of chance with
other passengers that isn't conducted, spon-
sored, or operated by the owner or operator
isn't gambling for determining if the voyage is
subject to the ship passenger tax.

Exemptions. The tax doesn't apply when a
vessel is on a voyage of less than 12 hours be-
tween two points in the United States or if a ves-
sel is owned or operated by a state or local gov-
ernment.

8.

Foreign
Insurance Taxes

Tax is imposed on insurance policies issued by
foreign insurers. Any person who makes, signs,
issues, or sells any of the documents and in-
struments subject to the tax, or for whose use or
benefit they're made, signed, issued, or sold, is
liable for the tax.

The following tax rates apply to each dollar (or
fraction thereof) of the premium paid.

1. Casualty insurance and indemnity, fidelity,
and surety bonds: $0.04. For example, on
a premium payment of $10.10, the tax is
$0.44.

2. Life, sickness, and accident insurance,

and annuity contracts: $0.01. For example,
on a premium payment of $10.10, the tax
is $0.11.

3. Reinsurance policies covering any of the
taxable contracts described in items (1)
and (2): $0.01.

However, the tax doesn't apply to casualty in-
surance premiums paid to foreign insurers for
coverage of export goods in transit to foreign
destinations.

Premium. Premium means

the agreed
price or consideration for assuming and carry-
ing the risk or obligation. It includes any addi-
tional charge or assessment payable under the
contract, whether in one sum or installments. If
premiums are refunded, claim the tax paid on
those premiums as an overpayment against tax
due on other premiums paid or file a claim for
refund.

When liability attaches. The liability for this
tax attaches when the premium payment is
transferred to the foreign insurer or reinsurer (in-
cluding transfers to any bank, trust fund, or simi-
lar recipient designated by the foreign insurer or
reinsurer) or to any nonresident agent, solicitor,
or broker. A person can pay the tax before the
liability attaches if the person keeps records
consistent with that practice.

Who must file. The person who pays the pre-
mium to the foreign insurer (or to any nonresi-
dent person such as a foreign broker) must pay
the tax and file the return. Otherwise, any per-
son who issued or sold the policy, or who is in-
sured under the policy, is required to pay the tax
and file the return.

Records: The person liable for this tax must
keep accurate records that identify each policy
or instrument subject to tax. These records
must clearly establish the type of policy or in-
strument, the gross premium paid, the identity
of the insured and insurer, and the total pre-
mium charged. If the premium is to be paid in in-
stallments, the records must also establish the

amount and anniversary date of each install-
ment.

The records must be kept at the place of
business or other convenient location for at
least 3 years after the later of the date any part
of the tax became due, or the date any part of
the tax was paid. During this period, the records
must be readily accessible to the IRS.

The person having control or possession of
a policy or instrument subject to this tax must
keep the policy for at least 3 years after the date
any part of the tax on it was paid.

Tip: For information on reinsurance premiums
paid from one foreign insurer to another foreign
insurer, see Revenue Ruling 2008-15, I.R.B.
2008-12,
IRS.gov/irb/
2008-12_IRB#RR-2008-15

at

Treaty-based positions under I.R.C 6114.
You may have to file an annual report disclosing
the amount of premiums exempt from U.S. ex-
cise tax as a result of the application of a treaty
with the United States that overrides (or other-
wise modifies) any provision of the Internal Rev-
enue Code.

Attach any disclosure statement to the first
quarter Form 720. You may be able to use Form
8833, Treaty-Based Return Position Disclosure
Under Section 6114 or 7701(b), as a disclosure
statement. See the Instructions for Form 720 for
information on how and where to file.

See Revenue Procedure 92-14 in Cumula-
tive Bulletin 1992-1 for procedures you can use
to claim a refund of this tax under certain U.S.
treaties.

9.

Obligations Not
in Registered
Form

Tax is imposed on any person who issues a reg-
istration-required obligation not in registered
form. The tax is:

• 1% of the principal of the obligation, multi-

plied by -

• The number of calendar years (or portions
of calendar years) during the period start-
ing on the date the obligation was issued
and ending on the date it matures.

A registration-required obligation is any obliga-
tion other than one that meets any of the follow-
ing conditions.

1.

It's issued by a natural person.

2.

It isn't of a type offered to the public.

3.

It has a maturity (at issue) of not more than
1 year.

4.

It's a tax-exempt bond.

38

Chapter 9 Obligations Not in Registered Form

Publication 510 (12-2025)
businesses is a free and secure payment appli-
cation available at IRS.gov/DirectPay. If you
don’t want to use EFTPS, or IRS Direct Pay, you
can arrange for your tax professional, financial
institution, payroll service, or other trusted third
party to make deposits on your behalf. Also, you
may arrange for your financial institution to sub-
mit a same-day wire payment on your behalf.

EFTPS and IRS Direct Pay are free services
provided by the Department of Treasury. Serv-
ices provided by your tax professional, financial
institution, payroll service, or other third party
may have a fee. To get more information about
EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov
or call 800-555-4477. Additional information
about EFTPS is also available in Pub. 966,
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: A
Guide to Getting Started.

Depositing on time. For EFTPS deposits to
be on time, you must submit the transaction at
least 1 day before the date the deposit is due
(by 8:00 p.m. Eastern time).

Same-day wire payment option. If you fail to
submit a deposit transaction on EFTPS by 8:00
p.m. Eastern time the day before the date a de-
posit is due, you can still make your deposit on
time by using the Federal Tax Collection Serv-
ice (FTCS). To use the same-day wire payment
method, you will need to make arrangements
with your financial institution ahead of time.
Please check with your financial institution re-
garding availability, deadlines, and costs. Your
financial institution may charge you a fee for
payments made this way. To learn more about
the information you will need to provide your fi-
nancial institution to make a same-day wire pay-
ment, visit
IRS.gov/Payments and click on
“Same-day wire.”

Tip: You will automatically be enrolled
in
EFTPS when you apply for an EIN. You will re-
ceive a separate mailing containing instructions
for activating your EFTPS enrollment after you
receive your EIN.

When To Make Deposits

There are two methods for determining depos-
its: the regular method and the alternative
method.

The regular method applies to all taxes in
Part I of Form 720 except for communications
and air transportation taxes if deposits are
based on amounts billed or tickets sold, rather
than on amounts actually collected. See Alter-
native method (IRS Nos. 22, 26, 27, and 28),
later.

If you're depositing more than one tax under
a method, combine all the taxes under the
method and make one deposit for the semi-
monthly period.

ceding day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or le-
gal holiday.

Caution: Don't reduce your liability by any
amounts from Form 720-X.

Alternative method (IRS Nos. 22, 26, 27,
and 28). Deposits of communications and air
transportation taxes may be based on taxes in-
cluded in amounts billed or tickets sold during a
semimonthly period instead of on taxes actually
collected during the period. Under the alterna-
tive method, the tax included in amounts billed
or tickets sold during a semimonthly period is
considered collected during the first 7 days of
the second following semimonthly period. The
deposit of tax is due by the third banking day af-
ter the seventh day of that period.

For an example of the alternative method,

see the Instructions for Form 720.

To use the alternative method, you must
keep a separate account of the tax included in
amounts billed or tickets sold during the month
and report on Form 720 the tax included in
amounts billed or tickets sold and not the
amount of tax that is actually collected. For ex-
ample, amounts billed in December, January,
and February are considered collected during
January, February, and March and are reported
on Form 720 as the tax for the first quarter of
the calendar year.

The separate account for each month must

reflect:

1. All items of tax included in amounts billed
or tickets sold during the month, and

2. Other items of adjustment relating to tax
for prior months (within the statute of limi-
tations on credits or refunds).

The separate account for any month can't in-
clude an adjustment resulting from a refusal to
pay or inability to collect unless the refusal has
been reported to the IRS. See Uncollected Tax
Report in chapter 4.

The net amount of tax that is considered col-
lected during the semimonthly period must be
either:

• The net amount of tax reflected in the sep-
arate account for the corresponding semi-
monthly period of the preceding month, or
• One-half of the net amount of tax reflected
in the separate account for the preceding
month.

Special rule for deposits of taxes in Sep-
tember. See the Instructions for Form 720 for a
special rule on deposits made in September.

Amount of Deposits

Deposits for a semimonthly period must gener-
ally be at least 95% of the net tax liability for that
period unless the safe harbor rule applies. Gen-
erally, you don't have to make a deposit for a pe-
riod in which you incurred no tax liability.

Safe Harbor Rule

The safe harbor rule applies separately to de-
posits under the regular method and the alter-
native method. Persons who filed Form 720 for
the look-back quarter (the second calendar
quarter preceding the current quarter) are con-
sidered to meet the semimonthly deposit re-
quirement if the deposit for each semimonthly
period in the current quarter is at least 1/6
(16.67%) of the net tax liability reported for the
look-back quarter.

For the semimonthly period for which the ad-
ditional deposit is required, the additional de-
posit must be at least 11/90 (12.23%), 10/90
(11.12%) for non-EFTPS, of the net tax liability
reported for the look-back quarter. Also, the to-
tal deposit for that semimonthly period must be
at least 1/6 (16.67%) of the net tax liability re-
ported for the look-back quarter.

Exceptions. The safe harbor rule doesn't

apply to:

• The first and second quarters beginning on
or after the effective date of an increase in
the rate of tax unless the deposit of taxes
for each semimonthly period in the calen-
dar quarter is at least 1/6 (16.67%) of the
tax liability you would have had for the
look-back quarter if the increased rate of
tax had been in effect for that look-back
quarter;

• Any quarter if liability includes any tax not
in effect throughout the look-back quarter;
or

• For deposits under the alternative method,
any quarter if liability includes any tax not
in effect throughout the look-back quarter
and the month preceding the look-back
quarter.

Requirements to be met. For the safe harbor
rule to apply, you must:

• Make each deposit timely at an authorized

financial institution, and

• Pay any underpayment for the current
quarter by the due date of the return.

Caution: The IRS may withdraw the right to
make deposits of tax using the safe harbor rule
from any person not complying with these rules.

Tax rate increases. You must modify the safe
harbor rule if there has been an increase in the
rate of tax. You must figure your tax liability in
the look-back quarter as if the increased rate
had been in effect. To qualify for the safe harbor
rule, your deposits can't be less than 1/6 of the
refigured tax liability.

Regular method. The deposit of tax for a sem-
imonthly period is due by the 14th day following
that period. Generally, this is the 29th day of a
month for the first semimonthly period and the
14th day of the following month for the second
semimonthly period. If the 14th or the 29th day
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, you
must make the deposit by the immediately pre-

Net tax liability. Your net tax liability is your tax
liability for the period minus any claims on Form
720, Schedule C for the period. You may figure
your net tax liability for a semimonthly period by
dividing your net liability incurred during the cal-
endar month by two. If you use this method, you
must use it for all semimonthly periods in the
calendar quarter.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 14

Payment of Taxes

41