transition to electronic payments for all federal
disbursements. Accordingly, the IRS will not is-
sue Form 943 tax refunds by direct deposit. Di-
rect deposit is a fast, simple, safe, and secure
way to have your refund deposited automati-
cally to your checking or savings account. In-
stead of a direct deposit refund, you can still
choose to have your Form 943 overpayment ap-
plied to your next return by checking the appro-
priate box on Form 943, line 16b.

Make balance due payments electronically.
EO 14247 also promotes operational efficiency
by mandating the transition to electronic pay-
ments for all payments made to the federal gov-
ernment. Therefore, pay your balance due on
Form 943 electronically. There are several easy,
safe, and secure ways to pay your balance due
electronically.

No federal income tax on qualified overtime
compensation. For tax years beginning after
2024 and ending before 2029, OBBBA allows
individuals to deduct up to $12,500 ($25,000 if
married filing jointly) in qualified overtime com-
pensation. See chapter 13 and the Instructions
for Form 1040. Also, monitor IRS.gov for more
information and the latest updates.

Election to pay tax on farmland sale or ex-
change in installments. OBBBA created a
new section 1062 that allows taxpayers to elect
to pay the net income tax attributable to the gain
on the sale or exchange of qualified farmland
property to a qualified farmer through four equal
annual installments beginning in the year of sale
or exchange. This election is available for tax
years beginning after July 4, 2025. For more in-
formation, see section 1062 and the new Form
1062 when it becomes available.

Domestic research and experimental ex-
penditures. Beginning in 2025, research and
experimental (R&E) expenses can be fully de-
ducted on your tax return. Certain small busi-
nesses may elect to apply the full expensing of
R&E expenses retroactively by amending re-
turns back to 2022. You can also elect to charge
your R&E expenses to a capital account and
amortize the costs ratably over a period of no
less than 60 months. See Revenue Procedure
2025-28 for more information.

Sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) mixture
credit. The SAF credit has been terminated
and will no longer apply to any sale or use after
September 30, 2025.

What’s New for 2026
Social security and Medicare taxes for
2026. The employee and employer tax rates for
social security and the maximum amount of wa-
ges subject to social security tax for 2026 will
be discussed in Pub. 15 (for use in 2026).

The Medicare tax rate for 2026 will also be
discussed in Pub. 15 (for use in 2026). There’s
no limit on the amount of wages subject to Med-
icare tax.

Reminders
The following reminders and other items may
help you file your tax return.

Publication 225 (2025)

Principal agricultural activity codes. You
must enter on line B of Schedule F (Form 1040)
a code that identifies your principal agricultural
activity. It is important to use the correct code
because this information will identify market
segments of the public for IRS Taxpayer Educa-
tion programs. The U.S. Census Bureau also
uses this information for its economic census.
See the list of Principal Agricultural Activity Co-
des on page 2 of Schedule F (Form 1040).

Publication on employer identification num-
bers (EINs). Pub. 1635, Understanding Your
Employer Identification Number, provides gen-
eral information on EINs. Topics include how to
apply for an EIN and how to complete Form
SS-4.

Change of address. If you change your home
address, you should use Form 8822, Change of
Address, to notify the IRS. If you change your
business address, you should use Form
8822-B, Change of Address or Responsible
Party - Business, to notify the IRS. Be sure to in-
clude your suite, room, or other unit number.

Pub. 51 discontinued after 2023. Pub. 51,
Agricultural Employer’s Tax Guide, was discon-
tinued for tax years beginning after December
31, 2023. Instead, the information specific to
agricultural employers will be included in Pub.
15, Employer’s Tax Guide. There’s a new Pub.
15 (sp) that is a Spanish-language version of
Pub. 15.

Business meals deduction. The temporary
100% deduction for food or beverages provided
by a restaurant has expired. The business meal
deduction reverted back to the 50% allowable
deduction beginning January 1, 2023.

The COVID-19 related credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages is limited to
leave taken after March 31, 2020, and be-
fore October 1, 2021, and may no longer be
claimed on Form 943. Generally, the credit for
qualified sick and family leave wages, as enac-
ted under the Families First Coronavirus Re-
sponse Act (FFCRA) and amended and exten-
ded by the COVID-related Tax Relief Act of
2020, for leave taken after March 31, 2020, and
before April 1, 2021, and the credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages under sections
3131, 3132, and 3133 of the Internal Revenue
Code, as enacted under the American Rescue
Plan Act of 2021 (the ARP), for leave taken after
March 31, 2021, and before October 1, 2021,
have expired. However, employers that pay
qualified sick and family leave wages in 2025 for
leave taken after March 31, 2020, and before
October 1, 2021, are eligible to claim a credit for
qualified sick and family leave wages in 2025.
Effective for tax periods beginning after 2023,
the lines used to claim the credit for qualified
sick and family leave wages have been re-
moved from Form 943, Employer’s Annual Fed-
eral Tax Return for Agricultural Employees, be-
cause
for an
it would be extremely rare
employer to pay wages after December 31,
2023, for qualified sick and family leave taken
after March 31, 2020, and before October 1,
2021. Instead, if you’re eligible to claim the
credit for qualified sick and family leave wages
because you paid the wages in 2025 for an ear-
lier applicable leave period, file Form 943-X,
Adjusted Employer’s Annual Federal Tax Return
for Agricultural Employees or Claim for Refund,
after filing Form 943, to claim the credit for

qualified sick and family leave wages paid in
2025. Filing a Form 943-X before filing a Form
943 for the year may result in errors or delays in
processing your Form 943-X.

Qualified small business payroll tax credit
for increasing research activities. For tax
years beginning before January 1, 2023, a
qualified small business may elect to claim up
to $250,000 of its credit for increasing research
activities as a payroll tax credit. The Inflation
Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) increases the
election amount to $500,000 for tax years be-
ginning after December 31, 2022. The payroll
tax credit election must be made on or before
the due date of the originally filed income tax re-
turn (including extensions). The portion of the
credit used against payroll taxes is allowed in
the first calendar quarter beginning after the
date that the qualified small business filed its in-
come tax return. The election and determination
of the credit amount that will be used against
the employer’s payroll taxes are made on Form
6765, Credit for Increasing Research Activities.
The amount from Form 6765 must then be re-
ported on Form 8974, Qualified Small Business
Payroll Tax Credit for Increasing Research Ac-
tivities.

tax up

Starting in the first quarter of 2023, the pay-
roll tax credit is first used to reduce the em-
ployer share of social security
to
$250,000 per quarter and any remaining credit
reduces the employer share of Medicare tax for
the quarter. Any remaining credit, after reducing
the employer share of social security tax and
the employer share of Medicare tax, is then car-
ried forward to the next quarter. Form 8974 is
used to determine the amount of the credit that
can be used in the current quarter. The amount
from Form 8974, line 12, or, if applicable,
line 17, is reported on Form 943, line 12. For
more information about the payroll tax credit,
see the Instructions for Form 8974 and go to
IRS.gov/ResearchPayrollTC.

Certification program for professional em-
ployer organizations (PEOs). The Stephen
Beck, Jr., ABLE Act of 2014 required the IRS to
establish a voluntary certification program for
PEOs. PEOs handle various payroll administra-
tion and tax reporting responsibilities for their
business clients and are typically paid a fee
based on payroll costs. To become and remain
certified under the certification program, certi-
fied professional
employer organizations
(CPEOs) must meet various requirements de-
scribed in sections 3511 and 7705 and related
published guidance. Certification as a CPEO
may affect the employment tax liabilities of both
the CPEO and its customers. A CPEO is gener-
ally treated for employment tax purposes as the
employer of any individual who performs serv-
ices for a customer of the CPEO and is covered
by a contract described in section 7705(e)(2)
between the CPEO and the customer (CPEO
contract), but only for wages and other compen-
sation paid to the individual by the CPEO. To
become a CPEO, the organization must apply
through the IRS Online Registration System.
For more information or to apply to become a
CPEO, go to IRS.gov/CPEO.

CPEOs must generally file Form 943 and
Schedule R (Form 943), Allocation Schedule for
Aggregate Form 943 Filers, electronically. For
more information about a CPEO’s requirement

3
IF payment is by...

THEN the statement must
show the...

check

electronic funds
transfer

credit or debit card

•
•
•
•

•
•
•

•

•
•

check number,
amount,
payee’s name, and
date the check amount
was posted to the
account by the financial
institution.

amount transferred,
payee’s name, and
date the transfer was
posted to the account by
the financial institution.

amount charged or
debited,
payee’s name, and
transaction date.

Proof of payment of an amount, by it-
self, does not establish you are entitled
to a tax deduction. You should also
keep other documents, such as credit card
sales slips and invoices, to show that you also
incurred the cost.

Tax returns. Keep copies of your filed tax re-
turns. They help in preparing future tax returns
and making computations if you file an amen-
ded return. Keep copies of your information re-
turns such as Form 1099-NEC, Form
1099-MISC, Schedule K-1, and Form W-2.

How Long To Keep
Records

You must keep your records as long as the re-
cords may be needed for the administration of
any provision of the Internal Revenue Code.
Keep records that support an item of income or
a deduction appearing on a return until the pe-
riod of limitations for the return runs out. A pe-
riod of limitations is the period of time after
which no legal action can be brought. Generally,
that means you must keep your records for at
least 3 years from when your tax return was due
or filed or within 2 years of the date the tax was
paid, whichever is later. However, records must
be kept for a longer period of time in certain in-
stances, some of which are discussed below.
For more details, see chapter 1 of Pub. 17.

Employment taxes. If you have employees,
you must keep all employment tax records for at
least 4 years after the date the tax becomes
due or is paid, whichever is later.

Assets. Keep records relating to property until
the period of limitations expires for the year in
which you dispose of the property in a taxable
disposition. You must keep these records to fig-
ure any depreciation, amortization, or depletion
deduction and to figure your basis for comput-
ing gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dis-
pose of the property.

You may need to keep records relating to the
basis of property longer than the period of limi-
tations. Keep those records as long as they are
important in figuring the basis of the original or
replacement property. Generally, this means as
long as you own the property and, after you

dispose of it, for the period of limitations that ap-
plies to you. For example, if you received prop-
erty in a nontaxable exchange, you must keep
the records for the old property, as well as for
the new property, until the period of limitations
expires for the year in which you dispose of the
new property in a taxable disposition. For more
information on basis, see chapter 6.

Records for nontax purposes. When your re-
cords are no longer needed for tax purposes,
do not discard them until you check to see if you
have to keep them longer for other purposes.
For example, your insurance company or cred-
itors may require you to keep them longer than
the IRS does.

2.

Accounting
Methods

Introduction

You must use an accounting method that
clearly shows the income and expenses used to
figure your taxable income. You must also file
an income tax return for an annual accounting
period called a “tax year.”

This chapter discusses accounting meth-
ods. For information on accounting periods, see
Pub. 538, Accounting Periods and Methods,
and the Instructions for Form 1128, Application
To Adopt, Change, or Retain a Tax Year.

Topics
This chapter discusses:

• Cash method
• Accrual method
• Farm inventory
• Special methods of accounting
• Changes in methods of accounting

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

538

538 Accounting Periods and Methods

Form (and Instructions)

1128

1128 Application To Adopt, Change, or
Retain a Tax Year

3115

3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method

See How To Get Tax Help for information about
getting publications and forms.

Accounting Methods

An accounting method is a set of rules used to
determine when and how your income and ex-
penses are reported on your tax return. Your ac-
counting method includes not only your overall
method of accounting, but also the accounting
treatment you use for any material item.

Facts and circumstances affect whether an
item is material. Factors to consider in deter-
mining the materiality of an item include the size
of the item (both in absolute terms and in rela-
tion to income and expenses) and the treatment
of the item on your financial statements. Gener-
ally, an item considered material for financial
statement purposes is also considered material
for income tax purposes. See Pub. 538 for more
information.

You generally choose an accounting method
for your farm business when you file your first in-
come tax return that includes a Schedule F
(Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Farming. If you
later want to change your accounting method,
you must generally get IRS approval. How to
obtain IRS approval is discussed later under
Changes in Methods of Accounting.

Types of accounting methods. Generally,
you can use any of the following accounting
methods. Each method is discussed in detail
below.

• Cash method.
• Accrual method.
• Special methods of accounting for certain

items of income and expenses.

• Combination (hybrid) method using ele-
ments of two or more of the above meth-
ods.

Business and other items. You can account
for business and personal items using different
accounting methods. For example, you can fig-
ure your business income under an accrual
method, even if you use the cash method to fig-
ure personal items.

Two or more businesses. If you operate two
or more separate and distinct businesses, you
can use a different accounting method for each
business. Generally, no business is separate
and distinct unless a complete and separate set
of books and records is maintained for each
business.

Cash Method

Most farmers use the cash method because
they find it easier to keep records and reflect in-
come and expenses using this method. Certain
farm corporations and partnerships and all tax
shelters are generally required to use an ac-
crual method of accounting. However, for tax
years beginning in 2025, farm corporations or
partnerships that have average annual gross re-
ceipts of $31 million or less for the 3 preceding
tax years and are not tax shelters can use the
cash method instead of the accrual method.
See Accrual Method Required, later. Also, see
Inventory, later.

6

Chapter 2

Accounting Methods

Publication 225 (2025)

!

CAUTION
Income

Under the cash method, include in your gross
income all items of income you actually or con-
structively received during the tax year. Items of
income include money received and the fair
market value (FMV) of property and or services
received. See chapter 3 for information on how
to report farm income on your income tax re-
turn.

Constructive receipt. Income is constructively
received when an amount is credited to your ac-
count or made available to you without restric-
tion. You do not need to have possession of the
income for it to be treated as income for the tax
year. You need to have the ability to receive the
income. If you authorize someone to be your
agent and receive income for you, you are con-
sidered to have received the income when your
agent receives it. Income is not constructively
received if your receipt of the income is subject
to substantial restrictions or limitations.

Delaying receipt of income. You cannot
hold checks or postpone taking possession of
similar property from one tax year to another to
avoid paying tax on the income. You must report
the income in the year the money or property is
received or made available to you without re-
striction.

Example. You are, a farmer who uses the
cash method of accounting, and you’re entitled
to receive a $10,000 payment on a grain con-
tract in December 2025. You were told in De-
cember that the payment was available, and re-
quested not to be paid until January 2026. You
must include this payment in 2025 income be-
cause it was made available in 2025.

Debts paid by another person or can-
celed. If your debts are paid by another person
or canceled by your creditors, you may have to
report part or all of this debt relief as income. If
you receive income in this way, you construc-
tively receive the income when the debt is can-
celed or paid. See Cancellation of Debt in chap-
ter 3 for more information.

Deferred payment contract. If you sell an
item under a deferred payment contract that
calls for payment in a future year, there is no
constructive receipt in the year of sale. How-
ever, if the sales contract states that you have
the right to the proceeds of the sale from the
buyer at any time after delivery of the item, then
you must include the selling price of the item in
income in the year of the sale, regardless of
when you actually receive payment.

Example. You are a farmer who uses the
cash method and a calendar tax year. You sell
grain in December 2025 under a bona fide
arm's-length contract that calls for payment in
2026. You include the proceeds from the sale in
your 2026 gross income since that is the year
payment is received. However, if the contract
states that you have the right to the proceeds
from the buyer at any time after the grain is de-
livered, you must include the sales price in your
2025 income, even if payment is received in the
following year.

Repayment of income. If you
include an
amount in income and in a later year you have
to repay all or part of it, then you may be able to
deduct the repayment in the year repaid. The
type of deduction you are allowed in the year of
repayment depends on the type of income you
included in the earlier year. If you use the cash
method of accounting, you can take the deduc-
tion (or credit, if applicable) for the tax year in
which you actually make the repayment. If you
use any other accounting method, you can de-
duct the repayment or claim a credit for it only
for the tax year in which it is a proper deduction
under your accounting method. For example, if
you use the accrual method, you are entitled to
the deduction or credit in the tax year in which
the obligation for the repayment accrues.

Expenses

Under the cash method, you generally deduct
expenses in the tax year you pay them. This in-
cludes business expenses for which you con-
test liability. However, you may not be able to
deduct an expense paid in advance or you may
be required to capitalize certain costs, as ex-
plained under Uniform Capitalization Rules in
chapter 6. See chapter 4 for information on how
to deduct farm business expenses on your in-
come tax return.

Prepayment. Generally, you cannot deduct ex-
penses paid in advance. This rule applies to any
expense paid far enough in advance to, in ef-
fect, create an asset with a useful life extending
substantially beyond the end of the current tax
year.

Example. On November 1, 2025, you
signed and paid $3,600 for a 3-year (36-month)
insurance contract for equipment. In 2025, you
are allowed to deduct only $200 (2/36 x $3,600)
of the cost of the policy that is attributable to
2025. In 2026, you'll be able to deduct $1,200
(12/36 x $3,600); in 2027, you'll be able to de-
duct $1,200 (12/36 x $3,600); and in 2028,
you'll be able to deduct the remaining balance
of $1,000.

An exception applies if the expense qualifies
for the 12-month rule. Under the 12-month rule,
a taxpayer is not required to capitalize amounts
paid to create certain rights or benefits for the
earlier of:

• 12 months after the right or benefit begins,

or

• The end of the tax year after the tax year in

which payment is made.

See Pub. 538 for more information and exam-
ples.

See chapter 4 for special rules for prepaid

farm supplies and prepaid livestock feed.

Accrual Method

Under the accrual method of accounting, you
generally report income in the year earned and
deduct or capitalize expenses in the year incur-
red. The purpose of an accrual method of ac-
counting is to correctly match income and ex-
penses in the correct tax year. Certain large
farm businesses must use an accrual method of
accounting for its farm activities and for sales

and purchases of inventory items. See Accrual
Method Required and Farm Inventory, later.

Income

Generally, you include an amount in income for
the tax year in which all events that fix your right
to receive the income have occurred, and you
can determine the amount with reasonable ac-
curacy. Under this rule, include an amount in in-
come on the earliest of the following dates.

• When you receive payment.
• When the income amount is due to you.
• When you earn the income.
• When title passes.
• When included as revenue in an applicable
financial statement, if you have an applica-
ble financial statement.

For more information, see Pub. 538. If you
use an accrual method of accounting, complete
Part III of Schedule F (Form 1040) to report your
income.

Inventory

Generally, if you keep an inventory, you must
use an accrual method of accounting to deter-
mine your gross income. However, see Excep-
tion below. An inventory is necessary to clearly
show income when the production, purchase, or
sale of merchandise is an income-producing
factor. See Pub. 538 for more information. Also,
see Farm Inventory, later, for more information
on items that must be included in inventory by
farmers and inventory valuation methods for
farmers.

Exception. For tax years beginning in 2025,
you are not required to maintain an inventory if
the average annual gross receipts for the 3 pre-
ceding tax years for the farm is $31 million or
less and the farm is not a tax shelter. In this
case, the farm can use a method of accounting
that (1) treats inventory as nonincidental materi-
als and supplies, or (2) accounts for the inven-
tory in the same manner as the applicable fi-
nancial statements. If it does not have an
applicable financial statement, it can use the
method of accounting used in its books and re-
cords prepared according to its accounting pro-
cedures.

Expenses

Under an accrual method of accounting, you
generally deduct or capitalize a business ex-
pense when both of the following apply.

1. The all-events test has been met. This test

is met when:

a. All events have occurred that fix the
fact that you have a liability, and

b. The amount of the liability can be de-
termined with reasonable accuracy.

2. Economic performance has occurred.

Economic performance. Generally, you can-
not deduct or capitalize a business expense un-
til economic performance occurs. If your ex-
pense is for property or services provided to
you, or for your use of property, economic

Publication 225 (2025)

Chapter 2

Accounting Methods

7