The definition of earned income for the exclusion or de-
duction is the same as the definition used when figuring
the credit except that earned income for the exclusion or
deduction doesn't include any dependent care benefits
you receive.

Tip: You can elect to include your nontaxable combat
pay in earned income when figuring your exclusion or de-
duction, even if you elect not to include it in earned in-
come for the earned income credit or the credit for child
and dependent care expenses.

Statement for employee. Your employer must give you a
Form W-2 (or similar statement), showing in box 10 the to-
tal amount of dependent care benefits provided to you
during the year under a qualified plan. Your employer will
also include in your wages shown in box 1 of your Form
W-2 any dependent care benefits that exceed the maxi-
mum amount of dependent care benefits allowed to be ex-
cluded. The maximum amount is $5,000 ($2,500 if mar-
ried filing separately).

Effect of exclusion on credit. If you exclude dependent
care benefits from your income, the amount of the exclu-
ded benefits:

1. Isn't included in your work-related expenses; and

2. Reduces the dollar limit, discussed later.

Earned Income Limit

The amount of work-related expenses you use to figure
your credit can't be more than:

1. Your earned income for the year if you are single at

the end of the year, or

2. The smaller of your or your spouse's earned income
for the year if you are married at the end of the year.

Earned income for the purpose of figuring the credit is

defined under You Must Have Earned Income, earlier.

Tip: For purposes of item (2), use your spouse's earned
income for the entire year, even if you were married for
only part of the year.

Example. You remarried on December 3. Your earned
income for the year was $18,000. Your new spouse's
earned income for the year was $2,000. You paid work-re-
lated expenses of $3,000 for the care of your 5-year-old
child and qualified to claim the credit. The amount of ex-
penses you use to figure your credit can't be more than
$2,000 (the smaller of your earned income or that of your
spouse).

Separated spouse. If you are legally separated or mar-
ried and living apart from your spouse (as described un-
der What’s Your Filing Status, earlier), you aren't consid-
ered married for purposes of the earned income limit. Use
only your income in figuring the earned income limit.

Surviving spouse. If your spouse died during the year
and you file a joint return as a surviving spouse, you may,

but aren't required to, take into account the earned income
of your spouse who died during the year.

Community property laws. Disregard community prop-
erty laws when you figure earned income for this credit.
Community property laws are explained in Pub. 555.

Self-employment earnings. If you are self-employed, in-
clude your net earnings in earned income. For purposes of
the child and dependent care credit, net earnings from
self-employment generally means
from
Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 3, minus any deduction for
self-employment tax on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15.
Include your self-employment earnings in earned income,
even if they are less than $400 and you didn't file Sched-
ule SE (Form 1040).

the amount

Clergy or church employee. If you are a member of
the clergy or a church employee, see the Instructions for
Form 2441 for details.

Statutory employee. If you filed Schedule C (Form
1040) to report income as a statutory employee, also in-
clude as earned income the amount from line 1 of that
Schedule C (Form 1040).

Net loss. You must reduce your earned income by any

net loss from self-employment.

Optional method if earnings are low or a net loss.
If your net earnings from self-employment are low or you
have a net loss, you may be able to figure your net earn-
ings by using an optional method instead of the regular
method. See Pub. 334, Tax Guide for Small Business, for
details. If you use an optional method to figure net earn-
ings for self-employment tax purposes, include those net
earnings in your earned income for this credit. In this case,
subtract any deduction you claimed on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 15, from the total of the amounts on Sched-
ule SE (Form 1040), lines 3 and 4b, to figure your net
earnings.

You or your spouse is a student or not able to care
for self. Your spouse who is either a full-time student or
not able to care for themselves is treated as having
earned income. Their earned income for each month is
considered to be at least $250 if there is one qualifying
person in your home, or at least $500 if there are two or
more qualifying persons at any time during the year.

Spouse works. If your spouse works during that
month, use the higher of $250 (or $500) or their actual
earned income for that month.

Spouse qualifies for part of month. If your spouse is
a full-time student or not able to care for themselves for
only part of a month, the full $250 (or $500) still applies for
that month.

You are a student or not able to care for yourself.
These rules also apply if you are a student or not able to
care for yourself and are filing a joint return. For each
month or part of a month you are a student or not able to
care for yourself, your earned income is considered to be
at least $250 (or $500). If you also work during that month,

Publication 503 (2025)

11