Publication 561
(Rev. December 2025)

Determining
the Value of
Donated
Property

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 561, such as legislation enacted
after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub561.

Reminders
Disallowance of deduction for certain con-
servation contributions by partnerships
and S corporations. If you are an ultimate
member of a partnership or an S corporation
and the amount of the partnership’s or S corpo-
ration’s qualified conservation contribution ex-
ceeds 2.5 times the sum of each ultimate mem-
ber’s relevant basis, then the contribution is not
treated as a qualified conservation contribution.
Unless the conservation contribution meets an
exception, it will be disallowed. See Disallow-
ance of deductions for certain conservation
contributions by partnerships or S corporations,
later.

Introduction
This publication is designed to help donors and
appraisers determine the value of property
(other than cash) that is given to qualified or-
ganizations. It sets forth general valuation prin-
ciples applicable to the income, gift, and estate
taxes with a focus in some areas on the valua-
tion of noncash property contributed after Janu-
ary 1, 2019, to a charity that qualifies under
section 170(c) for an income tax charitable con-
tribution deduction. It also explains, in general,
what kind of information you must have to sup-
port the income tax charitable contribution de-
duction you claim on your return.

This publication does not discuss how to fig-
ure the amount of your deduction for charitable
contributions or written records and substantia-
tion required. See Pub. 526, Charitable Contri-
butions, for this information.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and sug-
gestions for future editions.

You can send us comments

through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instruc-
tions, and publications. Don’t send tax ques-
tions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.

Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS In-
teractive Tax Assistant page at
IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and pub­
lications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.

Feb 26, 2026

Publication 561 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 15109Q
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to or-
der current forms, instructions, and publica-
tions; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve al-
ready sent us. You can get forms and publica-
tions faster online.

Useful Items
You may want to see:

Publication

526

526 Charitable Contributions

Forms (and Instructions)

8282

8282 Donee Information Return

8283

8283 Noncash Charitable Contributions

8283-V

8283-V Payment Voucher for Filing Fee

Under Section 170(f)(13)

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this
publication for information about getting these
publications and forms.

What Is Fair Market
Value (FMV)?

To figure how much you may deduct for prop-
erty that you contribute, you must first deter-
mine its FMV on the date of the contribution.

FMV. FMV is the price that property would sell
for on the open market. It is the price that would
be agreed on between a willing buyer and a will-
ing seller, with neither being required to act, and
both having reasonable knowledge of the rele-
vant facts. In addition to this general rule, there
are special rules used to value certain types of
property such as remainder interests, annuities,
interests for life or for a term of years, and rever-
sions, discussed below.

Example 1. If you give an item of used
clothing that is in good used condition or better
to the Salvation Army, the FMV would be the
price that typical buyers actually pay for clothing
of this age, condition, style, and use. Usually,
such items are worth far less than what you paid
for them.

Example 2. If you donate jewelry to a char-
ity, the FMV of the jewelry is not the value an
appraiser determined in an appraisal you ob-
tained so that your insurance company would
reimburse you for the insured value of the jew-
elry in case the jewelry is stolen or destroyed.
This insured value does not reflect what a will-
ing buyer and willing seller would pay for the
jewelry on the date of the contribution to charity.
It reflects only the replacement cost of the jew-
elry when you obtained the appraisal. See Re-
placement Cost, later.

Factors. In making and supporting the val-
uation of property, all factors affecting value are
relevant and must be considered. These in-
clude, but are not limited to:

• The cost or selling price of the item,
• Sales of comparable properties,

2

• Replacement cost, and
• Opinions of professional appraisers.

These factors are discussed later. Also, see
Table 1 for a summary of questions to ask as
you consider each factor.

Date of contribution. Ordinarily, the date of a
contribution is the date on which the property is
delivered to the charity or the title transfer date,
provided you do not retain any right to or inter-
est in the property that would limit the charity’s
use of the property.

Stock. If you deliver, without any condi-
tions, a properly endorsed stock certificate to a
qualified organization or to an agent of the or-
ganization, the date of the contribution is the
date of delivery. If the certificate is mailed and
received through the regular mail, it is the date
of mailing. If you deliver the certificate to a bank
or broker acting as your agent or to the issuing
corporation or its agent, for transfer into the
name of the organization, the date of the contri-
bution is the date the stock is transferred on the
books of the corporation.

Options. If you grant an option to a quali-
fied organization to buy real property, you have
not made a charitable contribution until the or-
ganization exercises the option. The amount of
the contribution is the FMV of the property on
the date the option is exercised minus the exer-
cise price.

Example. You grant an option to a local
university, which is a qualified organization, to
buy real property. Under the option, the univer-
sity could buy the property at any time during a
2-year period for $40,000. The FMV of the prop-
erty on the date the option
is
$50,000.

is granted

In the following tax year, the university exer-
cises the option. The FMV of the property on
the date the option is exercised is $55,000.
Therefore, you have made a charitable contribu-
tion of $15,000 ($55,000, the FMV, minus
$40,000, the exercise price) in the tax year the
option is exercised.

Determining FMV

Determining the value of donated property de-
pends upon many factors. You should consider
all the facts and circumstances connected with
the property, including any recent transactions,
in determining value. Value may also be based
on desirability, use, condition, scarcity, and mar-
ket demand for that property. Depending on the
type of property, there may be other characteris-
tics that are relevant in determining its value.

Cost or Selling Price of the
Donated Property

The cost of the property to you or the actual
selling price received by the qualified organiza-
tion may be the best indication of its FMV. How-
ever, because conditions in the market change,
the cost or selling price of property may have
less weight if the property was not bought or
sold at a time that is reasonably close to the
date of contribution.

The cost or selling price is a good indication

of the property’s value if:

• The purchase or sale took place close to
the valuation date in an open market,

• The purchase or sale was at “arm’s-length,”
• The buyer and seller knew all relevant

facts,

• The buyer and seller did not have to act,

and

• The economic conditions in the open mar-
ket did not change between the date of
purchase or sale and the valuation date.

Example. Bailey Morgan, who

is not a
dealer in gems, bought an assortment of gems
for $5,000 from a promoter. The promoter
claimed that the price was “wholesale” even
though this dealer and other dealers made simi-
lar sales at similar prices to other persons who
were not dealers. The promoter said that if Bai-
ley kept the gems for more than 1 year and then
gave them to charity, Bailey could claim a chari-
table contribution deduction of $15,000, which,
according to the promoter, would be the value
of the gems at the time of contribution. Bailey
gave the gems to a qualified charity 13 months
after buying them.

The selling price for these gems had not
changed from the date of purchase to the date
Bailey donated them to charity. The best evi-
dence of FMV depends on actual transactions
and not on some artificial estimate. The $5,000
paid by Bailey and others is, therefore, the best
evidence of the maximum FMV of the gems.

Terms of the purchase or sale. The terms of
the purchase or sale should be considered in
determining FMV if they influenced the price.
These terms include any restrictions, under-
standings, or covenants limiting the use or dis-
position of the property.

Rate of increase or decrease in value. Un-
less you can show that there were unusual cir-
cumstances, it is assumed that the increase or
decrease in the value of your donated property
from your cost has been at a reasonable rate.
For time adjustments, an appraiser may con-
sider published price indexes for information on
general price trends, building costs, commodity
costs, securities, and works of art sold at auc-
tion in arm’s-length sales.

Example. Corey Brown bought a painting
for $10,000. Thirteen months later, Corey gave
it to an art museum, claiming a charitable contri-
bution deduction of $15,000 on their tax return.
The appraisal of the painting should include in-
formation showing that there were unusual cir-
cumstances that justify a 50% increase in value
for the 13 months Corey held the property.

Arm’s-length offer. An arm’s-length offer to
buy the property close to the valuation date may
help to prove its value if the person making the
offer was willing and able to complete the trans-
action. To rely on an offer, you should be able to
show proof of the offer and the specific amount
to be paid. Offers to buy property other than the
donated item will help to determine value if the
other property is reasonably similar to the dona-
ted property.

Publication 561 (12-2025)