the payee to IRS.gov/FormW4P in addition to the ref-
erenced page numbers.

Paper Substitute to Form W-4P

When providing paper substitute forms for Form W-4P, you
should generally follow the same guidelines that apply to
electronic substitutes to Form W-4P, except where those
guidelines apply only in the context of electronic substi-
tutes (for example, instructions concerning pop-ups and
hoverboxes). Paper substitute forms must include the in-
structions and worksheets for Form W-4P rather than pro-
viding a web address to the instructions on IRS.gov.

How To Treat 2021 and Earlier Forms
W-4P as if They Were 2022 or Later
Forms W-4P

Payers may use an optional computational bridge to treat
2021 and earlier Forms W-4P as if they were 2022 or later
Forms W-4P for purposes of figuring federal income tax
withholding. This computational bridge can reduce system
complexity by allowing payers to permanently use compu-
tational procedures and data fields for a 2022 and later
Form W-4P to arrive at the equivalent withholding for a
payee that would have applied using the computational
procedures and data fields on a 2021 or earlier Form
W-4P. You must make up to four adjustments to use this
computational bridge, but it will simplify data storage and
eliminate some steps in Worksheet 1B.

1. Select the filing status in Step 1(c) of a 2022 or later
Form W-4P that most accurately reflects the payee’s
marital status on line 2 of a 2021 or earlier Form W-4P.
Treat the payee as “Single or Married filing separately”
on a 2022 or later Form W-4P if the payee selected ei-
ther “Single” or “Married, but withhold at higher single
rate” as their marital status on their 2021 or earlier
Form W-4P. Treat the payee as “Married filing jointly”
on a 2022 or later Form W-4P if the payee selected
“Married” as their marital status on their 2021 or ear-
lier Form W-4P. You can’t convert a payee to a filing
status of “Head of household” using this computa-
tional bridge.

2. Enter an amount in Step 4(a) on a 2022 or later Form

W-4P based on the filing status that you determined in

(1) above when you converted the payee’s marital sta-
tus on a 2021 or earlier Form W-4P. Enter $8,600 if
the payee’s filing status is “Single or Married filing
separately” or $12,900 if the payee’s filing status is
“Married filing jointly.”

3. Multiply the number of allowances claimed on line 2 of
a payee’s 2021 or earlier Form W-4P by $4,300 and
enter the result in Step 4(b) on a 2022 or later Form
W-4P.

4. Enter the additional amount of withholding requested
by the payee on line 3 of their 2021 or earlier Form
W-4P in Step 4(c) of a 2022 or later Form W-4P.

If you use this computational bridge, you will skip Steps
1(j)–(l) and any other instructions on Worksheet 1B that
reference a 2021 or earlier Form W-4P.

Caution: This computational bridge applies only to
Forms W-4P (including default elections) that were in ef-
fect on or before December 31, 2021, and that continue in
effect because a payee didn’t submit a 2022 or later Form
W-4P. If a payee chooses to submit a new Form W-4P, it
doesn’t change the general requirement that the payee
must use the current year’s revision of Form W-4P. Upon
putting in effect a new Form W-4P from a payee, you must
stop using this computational bridge for the applicable
year of the new Form W-4P. If a payer was unable to put
the 2022 Form W-4P in place during 2022, the computa-
tional bridge can also be applied to 2021 Forms W-4P
submitted in 2022.

Rounding

To figure the income tax to withhold, you may reduce the
last digit of the wages to zero, or figure the wages to the
nearest dollar. You may also round the tax for the pay pe-
riod to the nearest dollar. If rounding is used, it must be
used consistently. Withheld tax amounts should be roun-
ded to the nearest whole dollar by dropping amounts un-
der 50 cents and increasing amounts from 50 to 99 cents
to the next dollar. For example, $2.30 becomes $2 and
$2.50 becomes $3.

Publication 15-T (2026)

9
6. Alternative Methods for
Figuring Withholding

You may use various methods for figuring federal income
tax withholding. The methods described next may be used
instead of the Percentage Method and Wage Bracket
Method discussed earlier in this publication. Use the
method that best suits your payroll system and employ-
ees.

Caution: Employers must use a modified procedure
to figure the amount of federal income tax withholding on
the wages of nonresident alien employees. Before you use
any of the alternative methods to figure the federal income
tax withholding on the wages of nonresident alien employ-
ees, see Withholding Adjustment for Nonresident Alien
Employees, earlier.

Annualized wages. The Percentage Method Tables for
Automated Payroll Systems in section 1 and Worksheet
1A allow you to figure federal income tax withholding
based on annualized wages.

Average estimated wages. You may withhold the tax for
a payroll period based on estimated average wages, with
necessary adjustments, for any quarter. For details, see
Regulations section 31.3402(h)(1)-1.

Cumulative wages. An employee may ask you, in writ-
ing, to withhold tax on cumulative wages. If you agree to
do so, and you’ve paid the employee for the same kind of
payroll period (weekly, biweekly, etc.) since the beginning
of the year, you may figure the tax as follows.

Add the wages you’ve paid the employee for the current
calendar year to the current payroll period amount. Divide
this amount by the number of payroll periods so far this
year, including the current period. Figure the withholding
on this amount, and multiply the withholding by the num-
ber of payroll periods so far this year, including the current
period. Subtract the total tax already deducted and with-
held during the calendar year from the total amount of tax
calculated. The excess is the amount to withhold for the
current payroll period. See Revenue Procedure 78-8,
1978-1 C.B. 562, for an example of the cumulative
method.

Part-year employment. A part-year employee who fig-
ures income tax on a calendar-year basis may ask you to
withhold tax by the part-year employment method. The re-
quest must be in writing, must be under penalties of per-
jury, and must contain the following information.

• The last day of any employment during the calendar

year with any prior employer.

• A statement that the employee uses the calendar-year

accounting period.

• A statement that the employee reasonably anticipates
that they will be employed by all employers for a total
of no more than 245 days in all terms of continuous

employment (defined below in this section) during the
current calendar year.

Complete the following steps to figure withholding tax

by the part-year method.

1. Add the wages to be paid to the employee for the cur-
rent payroll period to any wages that you’ve already
paid to the employee in the current term of continuous
employment. See the definition for “term of continu-
ous employment,” later.

2. Add the number of payroll periods used in step 1 to

the number of payroll periods between the employee’s
last employment and current employment. To find the
number of periods between the last employment and
current employment, divide the number of calendar
days between the employee’s last day of earlier em-
ployment (or the previous December 31, if later) and
the first day of current employment by the number of
calendar days in the current payroll period.

3. Divide the step 1 amount by the total number of pay-

roll periods from step 2.

4. Find the tax in the withholding tax tables on the step 3
amount. Be sure to use the correct payroll period ta-
ble and to take into account the employee’s withhold-
ing allowances if their Form W-4 is from 2019 or ear-
lier, or take into account other information provided on
the employee’s 2020 or later Form W-4.

5. Multiply the total number of payroll periods from step

2 by the step 4 amount.

6. Subtract from the step 5 amount the total tax already
withheld during the current term of continuous em-
ployment. Any excess is the amount to withhold for
the current payroll period.

See Regulations section 31.3402(h)(4)-1(b) for more infor-
mation about the part-year method.

Term of continuous employment. A term of continu-
ous employment may be a single term or two or more fol-
lowing terms of employment with the same employer. A
term of continuous employment includes holidays, regular
days off, and days off for illness or vacation. A term of con-
tinuous employment begins on the first day that an em-
ployee works for you and earns pay. It ends on the earlier
of the employee’s last day of work for you or, if the em-
ployee performs no services for you for more than 30 cal-
endar days, the last workday before the 30-day period. If
an employment relationship is ended, the term of continu-
ous employment is ended even if a new employment rela-
tionship is established with the same employer within 30
days.

Other methods. You may use other methods and tables
for withholding taxes, as long as the amount of tax with-
held is consistently about the same as it would be under
the Percentage Method, as discussed in section 1. If you
develop an alternative method or table, you should test
the full range of wage and allowance situations to be sure
that they meet the tolerances contained in Regulations
section 31.3402(h)(4)-1(a) as shown in the table next.

66

Publication 15-T (2026)