Caution: If you elect to deduct the sales taxes paid on
your home, or home building materials, you can't include
them as part of your cost basis in the home.

Home Mortgage Interest

This section of the publication gives you basic information
about home mortgage interest, including information on
interest paid at settlement, points, and Form 1098.

Most home buyers take out a mortgage (loan) to buy
their home. They then make monthly payments to either
the mortgage holder or someone collecting the payments
for the mortgage holder.

Usually, you can deduct the entire part of your payment
that is for mortgage interest for acquisition debt (or debt
that qualifies as acquisition debt) if you itemize your de-
ductions on Schedule A (Form 1040). See
Home Acquisition Debt for more information.

Limits on home mortgage interest. Your deduction for
home mortgage interest is subject to a number of limits. If
one or more of the following limits apply, see Pub. 936 to
figure your deduction. Also see Pub. 936 if you later refi-
nance your mortgage or buy a second home.

Limit for loan proceeds not used to buy, build, or
substantially improve your home. You can only de-
duct home mortgage interest to the extent that the loan
proceeds from your home mortgage are used to buy,
build, or substantially improve the home securing the loan.
The only exception to this limit is for loans taken out on or
before October 13, 1987; the loan proceeds for these
loans are treated as having been used to buy, build, or
substantially improve the home. See Pub. 936 for more in-
formation about loans taken out on or before October 13,
1987.

Limit on loans taken out on or before December
15, 2017. For qualifying debt taken out on or before De-
cember 15, 2017, you can only deduct home mortgage in-
terest on up to $1 million ($500,000 if you are married fil-
ing separately) of that debt. The only exception is for loans
taken out on or before October 13, 1987; see Pub. 936 for
more information about loans taken out on or before Octo-
ber 13, 1987.

See Pub. 936 to figure your deduction if you have loans
taken out on or before December 15, 2017, that exceed $1
million ($500,000 if you are married filing separately).

Limit on loans taken out after December 15, 2017.
For qualifying debt taken out after December 15, 2017,
you can only deduct home mortgage interest on up to
$750,000 ($375,000 if you are married filing separately) of
that debt. If you also have qualifying debt subject to the $1
million ($500,000 if you are married filing separately) limi-
tation discussed under Limit on loans taken out on or be-
fore December 15, 2017, earlier, the $750,000 limit for
debt taken out after December 15, 2017, is reduced by the
amount of your qualifying debt subject to the $1 million
limit. An exception exists for certain loans taken out after
December 15, 2017, but before April 1, 2018. If the excep-
tion applies, your loan may be treated in the same manner

as a loan taken out on or before December 15, 2017. See
Pub. 936 for more information about this exception.

See Pub. 936 to figure your deduction if you have loans
taken out after October 13, 1987, that exceed $750,000
($375,000 or less if you are married filing separately).

Limit when loans exceed the fair market value of
the home. If the total amount of all mortgages is more
than the fair market value of the home, see Pub. 936 to fig-
ure your deduction.

Refund of home mortgage interest. If you receive a re-
fund of home mortgage interest that you deducted in an
earlier year and that reduced your tax, you must generally
include the refund in income in the year you receive it. For
more information, see Recoveries in Pub. 525. The
amount of the refund will usually be shown on the mort-
gage interest statement you receive from your mortgage
lender. See Mortgage Interest Statement, later.

Deductible Mortgage Interest

To be deductible, the interest you pay must be on a loan
secured by your main home or a second home, regardless
of how the loan is labeled. The loan can be a first or sec-
ond mortgage, a home improvement loan, a home equity
loan, or a refinanced mortgage.

Caution: Interest paid on home mortgage proceeds is
only deductible to the extent the loan proceeds were used
to buy, build, or substantially improve your home.

Prepaid interest. If you pay interest in advance for a pe-
riod that goes beyond the end of the tax year, you must
spread this interest over the tax years to which it applies.
Generally, you can deduct in each year only the interest
that qualifies as home mortgage interest for that year. An
exception (discussed later) applies to points.

Late payment charge on mortgage payment. You can
deduct as home mortgage interest a late payment charge
if it wasn't for a specific service in connection with your
mortgage loan.

Mortgage prepayment penalty. If you pay off your home
mortgage early, you may have to pay a penalty. You can
deduct that penalty as home mortgage interest, provided
the penalty isn't for a specific service performed or cost in-
curred in connection with your mortgage loan.

Ground rent. In some states (such as Maryland), you
may buy your home subject to a ground rent. A ground
rent is an obligation you assume to pay a fixed amount per
year on the property. Under this arrangement, you are
leasing (rather than buying) the land on which your home
is located.

Redeemable ground rents. If you make annual or pe-
riodic rental payments on a redeemable ground rent, you
can deduct the payments as mortgage interest. The

6

Publication 530 (2025)
Mortgage Interest Statement

If you paid $600 or more of mortgage interest (including
certain points during the year) on any one mortgage to a
mortgage holder in the course of that holder's trade or
business, you should receive a Form 1098 or similar state-
ment from the mortgage holder. The statement will show
the total interest paid on your mortgage during the year. If
you bought a main home during the year, it will also show
the deductible points you paid and any points you can de-
duct that were paid by the person who sold you your
home. See Points, earlier.

The interest you paid at settlement should be included
on the statement. If it isn't, add the interest from the settle-
ment sheet that qualifies as home mortgage interest to the
total shown on Form 1098 or similar statement. Put the to-
tal on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8a, and attach a state-
ment to your return explaining the difference. Enter “See
attached” to the right of line 8a.

A mortgage holder can be a financial institution, a gov-
ernmental unit, or a cooperative housing corporation. If a
statement comes from a cooperative housing corporation,
it will generally show your share of interest.

Your mortgage interest statement for 2025 should be
provided or sent to you by January 31, 2026. If it is mailed,
you should allow adequate time to receive it before con-
tacting the mortgage holder. A copy of this form will also
be sent to the IRS.

Example. You bought a new home on May 3. You paid
no points on the purchase. During the year, you made
mortgage payments that included $4,480 deductible inter-
est on your new home. The settlement sheet for the pur-
chase of the home included interest of $620 for 29 days in
May. The mortgage statement you receive from the lender
includes total interest of $5,100 ($4,480 + $620). You can
deduct the $5,100 if you itemize your deductions.

Refund of overpaid interest. If you receive a refund of
mortgage interest you overpaid in a prior year, you will
generally receive a Form 1098 showing the refund in
box 4. Generally, you must include the refund in income in
the year you receive it. See Refund of home mortgage in-
terest, earlier, under Home Mortgage Interest.

More than one borrower. If you and at least one other
person (other than your spouse if you file a joint return)
were liable for and paid interest on a mortgage that was
for your home, and the other person received a Form 1098
showing the interest that was paid during the year, attach
a statement to your paper return explaining this. Show
how much of the interest each of you paid and give the
name and address of the person who received the form.
Deduct your share of the interest on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 8b, and enter “See attached” to the right of that
line.

Home Acquisition Debt

Home acquisition debt is a mortgage you took out after
October 13, 1987, to buy, build, or substantially improve a
qualified home. It must also be secured by that home.

If the amount of your mortgage is more than the cost of
the home plus the cost of any substantial improvements,
only the debt that is not more than the cost of the home
plus improvements qualifies as home acquisition debt.

Home acquisition debt limit. With the exception of
grandfathered debt, the total amount you can treat as
home acquisition debt at any time on your home cannot
be more than $1 million ($500,000 if married filing sepa-
rately). However, for tax years beginning after 2017, there
is a further limitation. If you purchased your home during
this time, the total amount you can treat as home acquisi-
tion debt at any time on your home generally cannot be
more than $750,000 ($375,000 if married filing sepa-
rately). See Pub. 936, Home Mortgage Interest Deduction,
for more information.

Discharges of qualified principal residence indebted-
ness. You can exclude from gross income any discharges
of qualified principal residence indebtedness made after
2006 and in most cases before 2026. You must reduce the
basis of your principal residence (but not below zero) by
the amount you exclude.

Principal residence. Your principal residence is the
home where you ordinarily live most of the time. You can
have only one principal residence at any one time.

Qualified principal residence indebtedness. This
indebtedness is a mortgage that you took out to buy, build,
or substantially improve your principal residence and that
is secured by that residence. If the amount of your original
mortgage is more than the cost of your principal residence

Table 1.

Where To Deduct Interest and Taxes Paid on Your Home

See the text for information on what expenses are eligible.

IF you are eligible to deduct . . .

THEN report the amount
on Schedule A (Form 1040) . . .

state and local real estate taxes

home mortgage interest and points reported on Form 1098

home mortgage interest not reported on Form 1098

points not reported on Form 1098

Publication 530 (2025)

line 5b.

line 8a.

line 8b.

line 8c.

11