Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Green Lake, Wisconsin

Accident Number:

CEN23LA329

Date & Time:

July 27, 2023, 12:33 Local

Registration:

N5601G

Aircraft:

VARGA AIRCRAFT CORP. 2150A

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Fuel exhaustion

Injuries:

2 Minor

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

The pilot reported that he was flying the airplane to the annual Experimental Aircraft
Association Airventure fly-in at the Wittman Regional Airport (OSH), Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and
was proceeding as prescribed in the Notices to Air Missions (NOTAM) pertaining to arrivals to
the airport. He stated that the airplane’s engine lost power and he activated the auxiliary fuel
pump, which restored engine power briefly. The engine again lost power and the pilot executed
a forced landing to a corn field. The airplane nosed over during the landing and incurred
substantial damage to the fuselage and vertical tail.

Postaccident examination revealed no smell of fuel at the accident site and no evidence of a
fuel spill. No usable quantity of fuel was found within the fuel tanks and the tanks were not
breached. Examination of the airplane did not reveal any mechanical anomalies that would
have precluded normal operation.

Automatic dependent surveillance - broadcast (ADS-B) data revealed that the flight lasted
about 3.6 hours. According to the airplane operations manual, the maximum flight duration at
normal cruise was about 3.9 hours without reserve, but was predicated on using a lean mixture
setting.

Based on the available information, it is likely that the loss of engine power was due to fuel
exhaustion.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

Page 1 of 6
A loss of engine power due to fuel exhaustion, which resulted from the pilot’s inadequate
preflight planning.

Findings

Aircraft

Fuel - Fluid level

Personnel issues

Fuel planning - Pilot

Environmental issues

Rough terrain - Contributed to outcome

Page 2 of 6

CEN23LA329
Factual Information

History of Flight

Enroute

Landing

Fuel exhaustion (Defining event)

Nose over/nose down

On July 27, 2023, about 1233 central daylight time, a Varga 2150A, N5601G, was substantially
damaged when it was involved in an accident near Green Lake, Wisconsin. The pilot and
passenger received minor injuries. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of Federal
Regulations Part 91 personal flight.

According to the pilot, he was flying the airplane to the annual Experimental Aircraft
Association Airventure fly-in at the Wittman Regional Airport (OSH), Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and
was proceeding as prescribed in the NOTAM pertaining to arrivals to the airport. He stated that
the airplane’s engine lost power and he activated the auxiliary fuel pump, which restored
engine power briefly. The engine again lost power and the pilot executed a forced landing to a
corn field. The airplane nosed over during the landing and incurred substantial damage to the
fuselage and vertical stabilizer.

ADS-B data showed that the airplane departed KSBN at 0856 and proceeded toward OSH. It
maneuvered southwest of OSH before the data ended at 1233. Using this information, the
airplane was airborne for 3 hours and 37 minutes. According to the Airplane Operations
Manual, the fuel capacity was 35 gallons with 34 gallons usable, and the fuel burn at 75%
power when properly leaned was between 8.5 and 8.7 gallons per hour depending on
atmospheric conditions, or 3.9 to 4.0 hours endurance without reserve.

Postaccident examination of the airplane at the accident scene was conducted by Federal
Aviation Administration inspectors. The airplane was inverted in a corn field. There was no fuel
smell at the accident site and no evidence of a fuel spill. Once the airplane was righted the fuel
tanks were examined and no usable fuel was found in the fuel tanks. The tanks were not
compromised.

Post-recovery examination of the airplane and engine revealed no preimpact mechanical
failures or malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation.

Page 3 of 6

CEN23LA329
Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

58,Male

Front

4-point

No

Medical Certification:

Class 3 With waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

January 7, 2022

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Flight Time:

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Year of Manufacture:

VARGA AIRCRAFT CORP.

Registration:

2150A

1985

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

N5601G

Airplane

Airworthiness Certificate:

Normal; Utility

Serial Number:

VAC189-85

Landing Gear Type:

Tricycle

Seats:

2

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

Unknown

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

1817 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

ELT:

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Engine Manufacturer:

Lycoming

Engine Model/Series:

O-320

Rated Power:

150 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Page 4 of 6

CEN23LA329
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KOSH,785 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

18 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

12:53 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

70°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

9 knots / None

Wind Direction:

190°

Visibility

10 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

/

/

Altimeter Setting:

29.94 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

31°C / 23°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

South Bend, IN (SBN)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

None

Destination:

Oshkosh, WI (OSH)

Type of Clearance:

Departure Time:

08:55 Local

Type of Airspace:

VFR

Class E

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Minor

Passenger Injuries:

1 Minor

Ground Injuries:

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

2 Minor

Latitude, Longitude:

43.8865,-88.9438

Page 5 of 6

CEN23LA329
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Brannen, John

Additional Participating
Persons:

Tim Spreen; FAA MKE FSDO; Milwaukee, WI

Original Publish Date:

April 18, 2024

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192729

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 6 of 6

CEN23LA329