Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Eastsound, Washington

Accident Number:

WPR23LA285

Date & Time:

July 26, 2023, 17:30 Local

Registration:

N6201M

Aircraft:

Maule M-5-235C

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Fuel starvation

Injuries:

2 Minor

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

On final approach, the engine sputtered, lost fuel pressure, then lost all power. With the total
loss of power, the pilot initiated a forced landing to a field. During the landing, the airplane
struck a fence and subsequently nosed over.

The pilot reported that there were about 15 gallons of fuel on board before he departed on the
first of two sightseeing flights and that the left tank had substantially more fuel than the right
tank. When the airplane wreckage was recovered, about 10 gallons of fuel reportedly were
drained. According to the airplane manufacturer, about 3 gallons of this fuel would have been
unusable, and it is likely one of the fuel tanks was nearly empty. However, the investigation
was unable to determine the actual fuel quantity in the airplane’s tanks because the pilot
recovered and moved the airplane wreckage without oversight by federal officials.

The circumstances of the accident are consistent with the pilot likely not managing the fuel on
board properly, resulting in fuel starvation and a total loss of engine power.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The pilot’s improper in-flight fuel management, which led to fuel starvation and a total loss of
engine power.

Page 1 of 7
Findings

Aircraft

Fuel - Fluid level

Personnel issues

Decision making/judgment - Pilot

Personnel issues

Use of equip/system - Pilot

Personnel issues

Fuel planning - Pilot

Aircraft

Fuel - Fluid management

Page 2 of 7

WPR23LA285
Factual Information

History of Flight

Approach

Fuel starvation (Defining event)

Emergency descent

Off-field or emergency landing

Landing-landing roll

Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)

Landing-landing roll

Nose over/nose down

On July 26, 2023, about 1730 Pacific daylight time, a Maule M-5-235C, N6201M, was
substantially damaged when it was involved in an accident near Eastsound, Washington. The
pilot and passenger sustained minor injuries. The airplane was operated as a Title 14 Code of
Federal Regulations Part 91 personal flight.

The pilot reported that he departed Columbia Gorge Regional/The Dalles Municipal Airport
(DLS), The Dalles, Oregon, with 45 gallons of fuel on board and flew to Orcas Island Airport
(ORS), Eastsound, Washington. While at ORS, he determined that there were about 15 gallons
of fuel on board, and the left tank had “substantially” more fuel than the right tank. The pilot
then took off on a 15-minute sightseeing flight around the island with two friends. He returned
to ORS and conducted a second sightseeing flight with a third friend, flying the same flight
profile on the second sightseeing flight that he had flown on the first sightseeing flight.

The pilot said that he flew with the fuel selector in the Both position. At the conclusion of the
second sightseeing flight, while on final approach to ORS, the engine sputtered, lost fuel
pressure, and lost all power. The pilot engaged the electric boost pump but noted no change in
fuel pressure. With the total loss of engine power, he thought that he could not make the
runway and therefore initiated a forced landing to a field. During the landing, he maneuvered
the airplane to avoid power lines, which resulted in the airplane striking a fence and
subsequently nosing over and coming to rest inverted. Local law enforcement personnel noted
that there was no fuel leaking at the accident site.

The investigation was unable to determine the actual fuel quantity in the airplane’s fuel tanks
at the time of the accident because the pilot recovered the airplane wreckage on Orcas Island
and then moved it to a secure location on the mainland, without oversight by federal officials.
The pilot reported that when the airplane wreckage was recovered, about 10 gallons of fuel
were drained. According to the manufacturer, the airplane’s fuel system retains about 3 gallons
of unusable fuel.

Examination of the airframe and engine revealed no evidence of preaccident failures or
malfunctions that would have precluded normal operation. Fuel continuity was established

Page 3 of 7

WPR23LA285
from the main tanks to the carburetor. The engine-driven fuel pump was removed for
examination and no anomalies were noted. When the engine-driven lever was activated, the
pump diaphragm operated normally. Additionally, when the electric fuel boost pump was
activated, it operated normally with no anomalies noted. The main and auxiliary fuel tanks
were examined with a borescope and no anomalies were noted.

Following the wreckage examination, the pilot communicated that he likely ran a fuel tank dry.
He also communicated that air may have been introduced into the fuel lines while turning the
airplane in maneuvering flight with a low fuel quantity in one of the tanks. When asked how this
accident could have been prevented, the pilot said to top off both fuel tanks before departure.

Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

52,Male

Left

3-point

No

Medical Certification:

Class 3 With waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

December 23, 2022

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

May 23, 2023

Flight Time:

(Estimated) 153 hours (Total, all aircraft), 130 hours (Total, this make and model), 100 hours
(Pilot In Command, all aircraft), 153 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 20 hours (Last 30 days, all
aircraft), 4 hours (Last 24 hours, all aircraft)

Passenger Information

Certificate:

Airplane Rating(s):

Other Aircraft Rating(s):

Instrument Rating(s):

Instructor Rating(s):

Medical Certification:

Occupational Pilot:

Flight Time:

Male

Right

3-point

No

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

Last FAA Medical Exam:

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

Page 4 of 7

WPR23LA285
Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Maule

M-5-235C

Year of Manufacture:

1978

Airworthiness Certificate:

Normal

Registration:

Aircraft Category:

Amateur Built:

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Tailwheel

Seats:

N6201M

Airplane

7198C

4

Date/Type of Last Inspection: November 2, 2022 Annual

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

2500 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Airframe Total Time:

2625.7 Hrs as of last
inspection

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Engine Manufacturer:

Lycoming

ELT:

C126 installed, not activated

Engine Model/Series:

O-540-J2A5D

Registered Owner:

Operator:

On file

On file

Rated Power:

235 Horsepower

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KORS,31 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

3 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

17:35 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

15°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Lowest Ceiling:

Clear

None

Wind Speed/Gusts:

5 knots / None

Wind Direction:

320°

Visibility

10 miles

Visibility (RVR):

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A / N/A

Altimeter Setting:

30.1 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

19°C / 14°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Eastsound, WA

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

Destination:

Eastsound, WA

Type of Clearance:

None

None

Departure Time:

17:00 Local

Type of Airspace:

Class G

Page 5 of 7

WPR23LA285
Airport Information

Airport:

Orcas Island Airport KORS

Runway Surface Type:

Airport Elevation:

Runway Used:

Runway Length/Width:

Runway Surface Condition:

Vegetation

IFR Approach:

None

VFR Approach/Landing:

Forced landing;Full
stop;Straight-in

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Minor

Passenger Injuries:

1 Minor

Ground Injuries:

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

2 Minor

Latitude, Longitude:

48.65613,-122.93276(est)

Page 6 of 7

WPR23LA285
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Nixon, Albert

Additional Participating
Persons:

Joseph Sullivan; FAA; Seattle, WA

Original Publish Date:

August 20, 2025

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192724

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 7 of 7

WPR23LA285