Aviation Investigation Final Report

Location:

Chouteau, Oklahoma

Accident Number:

CEN23LA327

Date & Time:

July 21, 2023, 13:50 Local

Registration:

N730WL

Aircraft:

Vans RV10

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Defining Event:

Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail

Injuries:

2 Minor

Flight Conducted Under:

Part 91: General aviation - Personal

Analysis

The amateur-built experimental airplane was in cruise flight when the pilot noticed that a red
warning light in the cockpit was illuminated. The “oil pressure gauge” was “pegged” at 320°F.
The pilot immediately reduced engine power and initiated a glide profile to “take all the load off
the engine” so it could cool down. While setting up for the approach to land at the closest
airport, the engine “seized up” and sustained a total loss of power. The pilot performed a
forced landing to a flat grass field. The airplane sustained substantial damage to the fuselage
and both wings.

Postaccident examination of the experimental automotive engine revealed that the positive
crankcase ventilation (PCV) valve had failed. The pilot reported that the failed PCV valve
caused the engine to suck “too much oil” out of the crankcase and into the intake section. He
additionally reported that over the “long slow climb” to the cruise altitude of 6,000 ft, this
caused the oil level to get “too low,” eventually causing the oil to overheat, and that once the oil
overheated, the engine then stopped operating.

Probable Cause and Findings

The National Transportation Safety Board determines the probable cause(s) of this accident to be:

The total loss of engine power as a result of a failed positive crankcase ventilation (PCV) valve
and a subsequent impact with terrain.

Page 1 of 6
Findings

Aircraft

Aircraft

(general) - Failure

Recip eng liquid cooling - Failure

Page 2 of 6

CEN23LA327
Factual Information

History of Flight

Enroute-cruise

Enroute-cruise

Landing

Landing

Powerplant sys/comp malf/fail (Defining event)

Attempted remediation/recovery

Off-field or emergency landing

Collision with terr/obj (non-CFIT)

On July 21, 2023, about 1350 central daylight time, a Van’s Aircraft RV-10 airplane, N730WL,
sustained substantial damage when it was involved in an accident near Chouteau, Oklahoma.
The pilot and the passenger sustained minor injuries. The airplane was operated as a Title
14 Code of Federal Regulations Part 91 personal cross-country flight.

The purpose of the flight was for the two occupants to travel in the amateur-built experimental
airplane to the Experimental Aircraft Association AirVenture at the Wittman Regional Airport
(OSH), Oshkosh, Wisconsin. The airplane stopped at the Muskogee-Davis Regional Airport
(MKO), Muskogee, Oklahoma, where it was refueled with about 35 gallons of 100 low lead fuel.
The airplane departed to the north and, after being established in cruise flight at 6,000 ft, the
pilot, who is also the owner of the airplane, noticed that a red warning light in the cockpit was
illuminated. He noticed “the oil pressure gauge” was “pegged” at 320°F. The pilot immediately
reduced engine power and initiated a glide profile to “take all the load off the engine” so it
could cool down.

The pilot decided to land at the closest airport, which was the Mid-America Industrial Airport
(H71), Pryor, Oklahoma. While setting up for the approach to runway 36, the engine “seized up”
and sustained a total loss of power. The pilot performed a forced landing to a flat grass field
about 3 miles south of the threshold for runway 36. The airplane came to rest upright, and both
occupants were able to egress from the airplane without further incident. The airplane
sustained substantial damage to the fuselage and both wings.

The airplane was recovered from the field and the experimental General Motors LS-3 (V-
8) automotive engine was examined. The examination revealed that the positive crankcase
ventilation (PCV) valve had failed for undetermined reasons. The pilot reported that the failed
PCV valve caused the engine to suck “too much oil” out of the crankcase and into the intake
section. He additionally reported that over the “long slow climb” to the cruise altitude of 6,000
ft, this caused the oil level to get “too low,” eventually causing the oil to overheat, and that once
the oil overheated, the engine then stopped operating.

Page 3 of 6

CEN23LA327
Pilot Information

Certificate:

Private

Airplane Rating(s):

Single-engine land

Other Aircraft Rating(s): None

Instrument Rating(s):

None

Instructor Rating(s):

None

Age:

Seat Occupied:

Restraint Used:

Second Pilot Present:

Toxicology Performed:

67,Male

Left

4-point

No

Medical Certification:

Class 3 Without
waivers/limitations

Last FAA Medical Exam:

July 31, 2020

Occupational Pilot:

No

Last Flight Review or Equivalent:

June 26, 2023

Flight Time:

(Estimated) 178 hours (Total, all aircraft), 30 hours (Total, this make and model), 100 hours
(Pilot In Command, all aircraft), 23 hours (Last 90 days, all aircraft), 18 hours (Last 30 days, all
aircraft)

Aircraft and Owner/Operator Information

Aircraft Make:

Model/Series:

Vans

Registration:

RV10 No Series Exists

Aircraft Category:

Year of Manufacture:

2009

Amateur Built:

Airworthiness Certificate:

Experimental (Special)

Serial Number:

Landing Gear Type:

Tricycle

Seats:

N730WL

Airplane

Yes

40227

4

Date/Type of Last Inspection:

July 2, 2022 Condition

Certified Max Gross Wt.:

2800 lbs

Time Since Last Inspection:

Engines:

1 Reciprocating

Airframe Total Time:

240 Hrs as of last inspection

Engine Manufacturer:

General Motors

ELT:

C91A installed, not activated

Engine Model/Series:

LS-3 (V-8)

Registered Owner:

N730WL LLC

Rated Power:

375 Horsepower

Operator:

On file

Operating Certificate(s)
Held:

None

Operator Does Business As:

None

Operator Designator Code:

None

Page 4 of 6
Meteorological Information and Flight Plan

Conditions at Accident Site:

Visual (VMC)

Condition of Light:

Day

Observation Facility, Elevation:

KGCM,725 ft msl

Distance from Accident Site:

10 Nautical Miles

Observation Time:

13:35 Local

Direction from Accident Site:

316°

Lowest Cloud Condition:

Scattered

Visibility

10 miles

Lowest Ceiling:

Broken / 1600 ft AGL

Visibility (RVR):

Wind Speed/Gusts:

3 knots / None

Wind Direction:

320°

Turbulence Type
Forecast/Actual:

Turbulence Severity
Forecast/Actual:

None / None

N/A / N/A

Altimeter Setting:

30.01 inches Hg

Temperature/Dew Point:

24°C / 23°C

Precipitation and Obscuration:

No Obscuration; No Precipitation

Departure Point:

Muskogee-Davis Regional
Airport, OK (MKO)

Type of Flight Plan Filed:

None

Destination:

Pryor, OK (H71)

Type of Clearance:

Departure Time:

13:42 Local

Type of Airspace:

None

Class G

Wreckage and Impact Information

Crew Injuries:

1 Minor

Passenger Injuries:

1 Minor

Ground Injuries:

N/A

Aircraft Damage:

Substantial

Aircraft Fire:

None

Aircraft Explosion:

None

Total Injuries:

2 Minor

Latitude, Longitude:

36.175387,-95.329857(est)

Page 5 of 6

CEN23LA327
Administrative Information

Investigator In Charge (IIC):

Hodges, Michael

Additional Participating
Persons:

Timothy Wells; FAA Will Rogers FSDO; Oklahoma City, OK

Original Publish Date:

April 18, 2024

Last Revision Date:

Investigation Class:

Class 3

Note:

The NTSB did not travel to the scene of this accident.

Investigation Docket:

https://data.ntsb.gov/Docket?ProjectID=192721

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is an independent federal agency charged by Congress with
investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant events in other modes of transportation—
railroad, transit, highway, marine, pipeline, and commercial space. We determine the probable causes of the accidents
and events we investigate, and issue safety recommendations aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, we
conduct transportation safety research studies and offer information and other assistance to family members and
survivors for each accident or event we investigate. We also serve as the appellate authority for enforcement actions
involving aviation and mariner certificates issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and US Coast Guard, and
we adjudicate appeals of civil penalty actions taken by the FAA.

The NTSB does not assign fault or blame for an accident or incident; rather, as specified by NTSB regulation,
“accident/incident investigations are fact-finding proceedings with no formal issues and no adverse parties … and are
not conducted for the purpose of determining the rights or liabilities of any person” (Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 831.4). Assignment of fault or legal liability is not relevant to the NTSB’s statutory mission to improve
transportation safety by investigating accidents and incidents and issuing safety recommendations. In addition,
statutory language prohibits the admission into evidence or use of any part of an NTSB report related to an accident in a
civil action for damages resulting from a matter mentioned in the report (Title 49 United States Code section 1154(b)). A
factual report that may be admissible under 49 United States Code section 1154(b) is available here.

Page 6 of 6

CEN23LA327