2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Administer once daily with or without food ( 2) .
Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1).
Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2).
When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4, 5.6).

2.1 Recommended Dosage

Administer citalopram tablets once daily, with or without food, at an initial dosage of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily at an interval of no less than one week.

Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] .

2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets

Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)].

2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations

The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors

The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Drug Interactions (7)].

2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant

At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of therapy with citalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4)and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] .

2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Tablets

Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping citalopram tablets abruptly whenever possible.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Citalopram tablets, USP are available as:

40 mg: White colored, biconvex, capsule shaped film coated tablets debossed with ‘A’ on one side and with a score line in between ‘0’ and ‘7’ on other side

Tablets: 40 mg, scored