2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics. (2)
Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. (2.2, 8.6)

2.1 Dosage

The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively.
Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets and ondansetron oral solution may be used interchangeably.

Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting

Indication
Dosage Regimen
Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy
A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m ^2.
Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy
8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose.
Then administer 8 mg twice a day (every 12 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy.
Radiotherapy
For total body irradiation :8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day.
For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen :8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy.
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen :8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given.
Postoperative
16 mg administered 1 hour before induction of anesthesia.

Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting

Indication
Dosage Regimen
Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy
12 to 17 years of age:8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose.
Then administer 8 mg twice a day (every 12 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy.
4 to 11 years of age:4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose.
Then administer 4 mg three times a day for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy.

2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment

In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Ondansetron tablets USP, 4 mgare white to off-white, oval shaped, film-coated tablets debossed with ‘F’ on one side and ‘91’ on the other side.

Tablets: 4 mg. ( 3)