2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 7 mg once daily; the dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily; the minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week. (2.1)
Patients with severe renal impairment: the recommended maintenance dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 14 mg once daily. (2.3)

2.1 Recommended Dosing

The dosage of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules shown to be effective in a controlled clinical trial is 28 mg once daily.

The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 7 mg once daily. The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily. The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week. The dose should only be increased if the previous dose has been well tolerated. The maximum recommended dose is 28 mg once daily.

Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules can be taken with or without food. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules can be taken intact or may be opened, sprinkled on applesauce, and thereby swallowed. The entire contents of each memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules should be consumed; the dose should not be divided.

Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce, as described above, memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules should be swallowed whole. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules should not be divided, chewed, or crushed.

If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, that patient should not double up on the next dose. The next dose should be taken as scheduled. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above.

2.2 Switching from Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets to Memantine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules

Patients treated with memantine hydrochloride tablets may be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as follows:

It is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 10 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules 28 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 10 mg memantine hydrochloride tablet. There is no study addressing the comparative efficacy of these 2 regimens.

In a patient with severe renal impairment, it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 5 mg memantine hydrochloride tablet.

2.3 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment

In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 to 29 mL/min, based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation), the recommended maintenance dose (and maximum recommended dose) is 14 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Each capsule contains 7 mg, 14 mg, 21 mg, or 28 mg of memantine hydrochloride USP.

The 7 mg capsules are white to off-white coated pellets filled in the yellow opaque cap/yellow opaque body hard gelatin capsules imprinted with “M 7” on cap with black ink.
The 14 mg capsules are white to off-white coated pellets filled in the yellow opaque cap/dark green opaque body hard gelatin capsules imprinted with “M 14” on cap with black ink.
The 21 mg capsules are white to off-white coated pellets filled in the white to off-white cap/dark green opaque body hard gelatin capsules imprinted with “M 21” on cap with black ink.
The 28 mg capsules are white to off-white coated pellets filled in the dark green opaque cap/dark green opaque body hard gelatin capsules imprinted with “M 28” on cap with white ink.

Memantine hydrochloride is available as an extended-release capsule in the following strengths: 7 mg, 14 mg, 21 mg, 28 mg (3)