2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

•Starting dose: 15 mg once daily; may increase up to maximum recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. ( 2.1)
•Administer orally once daily, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. ( 2.1)
•Reduce dose gradually when discontinuing mirtazapine tablets. ( 2.6, 5.14)

2.1 Recommended Dosage

The recommended starting dose of mirtazapine tablets is 15 mg once daily, administered orally, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. If patients do not have an adequate response to the initial 15 mg dose, increase the dose up to a maximum of 45 mg per day. Dose changes should not be made in intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks to allow sufficient time for evaluation of response to a given dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] .

2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Mirtazapine Tablets

Prior to initiating treatment with mirtazapine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9)].

2.4 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant

At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of mirtazapine tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping mirtazapine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] .

2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions

Strong CYP3A Inducers
An increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inducer (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin) use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Drug Interactions ( 7)].
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors
A decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin). Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued [see Drug Interactions ( 7)].
Cimetidine
A decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant use of cimetidine. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Drug Interactions ( 7)].

2.6 Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablets Treatment

Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14)] . Gradually reduce the dosage of mirtazapine tablets rather than stopping abruptly whenever possible.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Mirtazapine tablets are supplied as:
•7.5 mg tablets: White, round biconvex tablets debossed with 'E14' on one side, plain on the other side.
•15 mg tablets: Yellow colored, oval shape biconvex tablets debossed with 'E' and' 15' separated with functionally scored line on one side, plain on the other side.
•30 mg tablets: Red-brown colored, oval shape biconvex tablets debossed with 'E' and '16' separated with functionally scored line on one side, plain on the other side.
•45 mg tablets: White, oval shape biconvex tablets debossed with 'E17' on one side, plain on the other side.

Tablets:7.5 mg, 15 mg functionally scored, 30 mg functionally scored and 45 mg. ( 3)