2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Take Duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1)

Indication	Starting Dose	Target Dose	Maximum Dose
MDD ( 2.2) 	40 mg/day to 60 mg/day	Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day	120 mg/day
GAD ( 2.3)
Adults	60 mg/day	60 mg/day (once daily)	120 mg/day
Geriatric	30 mg/day	60 mg/day (once daily)	120 mg/day
Pediatrics
(7 to 17 years of age) 	30 mg/day	30 to 60 mg/day (once daily)	120 mg/day
DPNP ( 2.4) 	60 mg/day	60 mg/day (once daily)	60 mg/day
FM ( 2.5)
Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age)	30 mg/day	60 mg/day (once daily)	60 mg/day
Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6) 	30 mg/day	60 mg/day (once daily)	60 mg/day

Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8, 5.7)

2.1 Important Administration Instructions

Administer Duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Do not chew or crush, and do not open the delayed-release capsule and sprinkle its contents on food or mix with liquids because these actions might affect the enteric coating. If a dose of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time. Do not take two doses of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same time.

2.2 Dosage for Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in Adults

The recommended starting dosage in adults with MDD is 40 mg/day (given as 20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (given either once daily or as 30 mg twice daily). For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg/day dose was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer any additional benefits. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment.

2.3 Dosage for Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder

Recommended Dosage in Adults Less than 65 Years of Age

For most adults less than 65 years of age with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg once daily dosage was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit. Nevertheless, if a decision is made to increase the dosage beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. Periodically reassess to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment.

Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients

In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Thereafter, patients may benefit from doses above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dose in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day.

Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age

Initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosage range is 30 to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may benefit from dosages above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day.

2.4 Dosage for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Adults

Administer 60 mg once daily in adults with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated. For patients for whom tolerability is a concern, a lower starting dose may be considered.

Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)].

2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia

Recommended Dosage in Adults

The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may respond to the starting dosage. There is no evidence that dosages greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg/day dosage, and higher dosages were associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions.

Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age

The recommended starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage in pediatric patients 13-17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased to 60 mg once daily based on response and tolerability.

2.6 Dosage for Treatment of Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain in Adults

The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for one week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6)].

2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment

Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)and Use in Specific Populations (8.9)].

Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)].

2.8 Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules

Adverse reactions after discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, after abrupt or tapered discontinuation, include: dizziness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, paresthesia, irritability, vomiting, insomnia, anxiety, hyperhidrosis, and fatigue. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].

2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders

At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4)].

2.10 Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue

Do not start duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4)].

In some cases, a patient already receiving Duloxetine delayed-release capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)].

The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, USP are available as:

20 mg opaque ochre capsules imprinted with "B" on the cap and "746" on the body
30 mg opaque green (cap) /opaque white (body) capsules imprinted with "B" on the cap and "747" on the body.
40 mg opaque blue (cap) /opaque orange (body) capsules imprinted with "B" on the cap and "750" on the body.
60 mg opaque green (cap) /opaque ochre (body) capsules imprinted with "B" on the cap and "748" on the body

Delayed-release capsules: 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg and 60 mg ( 3)