2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1)
Morphine sulfate extended-release 90 mg and 120 mg capsules, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency is established. (2.1)
Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg of morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg of oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg of oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. (2.1)
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5.1)
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1,5.1)
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. (2.1, 5.2)
Must swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules intact, or sprinkle the capsule contents on applesauce and immediately swallow. (2.1, 2.5)
Do not cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve the pellets in morphine sulfate extended-release capsules (risk of potentially fatal overdose) (2.1, 2.5, 5.1)
Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3)
Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are administered at a frequency of once daily (every 24 hours). (2.3)
Periodically reassess patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. (2.4)
Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in a physically-dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5, 5.14)

2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions

Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks.
Morphine sulfate extended-release 90 mg and 120 mg capsules are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid.
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks.
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)].
Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are administered at a frequency of once daily (every 24 hours).
Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Crushing, chewing, or dissolving the pellets in morphine sulfate extended-release capsules will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
Instruct patients who are unable to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to sprinkle the capsule contents on applesauce and immediately swallow without chewing [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)].

2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose

Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)].
Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].
There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent.

2.3 Initial Dosage

It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g. immediate-release morphine) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and formulations. Frequently reevaluate patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules.
Use of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant
The starting dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients who are not opioid tolerant is 30 mg orally every 24 hours.
Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].
Conversion from Other Oral Morphine Formulations to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules
Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules by administering the patient's total daily oral morphine dose as morphine sulfate extended-release capsules once-daily. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should not be given more frequently than every 24 hours.
Conversion from Parenteral Morphine or Other Parenteral Opioid Analgesics to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules
When converting from parenteral morphine or other parenteral non-morphine opioids to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, consider the following general points:
Parenteral to oral morphine ratio:
Between 2 to 6 mg of oral morphine may be required to provide analgesia equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Typically, a dose of morphine that is approximately three times the previous daily parenteral morphine requirement is sufficient.
Other parenteral non-morphine opioid analgesics to oral morphine sulfate:
Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions. Published relative potency data are available, but such ratios are approximations. In general, begin with half of the estimated daily morphine requirement as the initial dose, managing inadequate analgesia by supplementation with immediate-release morphine.
Conversion from Methadone to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules
Regular evaluation is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma.
Conversion from Other Oral Opioid Analgesics to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules
When Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules therapy is initiated, discontinue all opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate.
There are no established conversion ratios from other opioid analgesics to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using morphine sulfate extended-release capsules 30 mg orally every 24 hours.
The first dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules may be taken with the last dose of any immediate-release opioid medication due to the extended-release characteristics of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules formulation.

2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy

Individually titrate morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.14)]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During use of opioid therapy for an extended period of time, periodically reassess the continued need for opioid analgesics.

Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules dosage. Because steady-state plasma concentrations are approximated within 2 to 3 days, morphine sulfate extended-release capsules dosage adjustments may be done every 3 to 4 days.

The daily dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules must be limited to a maximum of 1600 mg/day. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules doses of over 1600 mg/day contain a quantity of fumaric acid that has not been demonstrated to be safe, and which may result in serious renal toxicity.

If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.

2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules

Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances.

When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including morphine sulfate extended-release capsules) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist.

There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on morphine sulfate extended-release capsules who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper.

It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances.

When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)].

2.6 Administration of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules

Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules must be taken whole. Crushing, chewing, or dissolving the pellets in morphine sulfate extended-release capsules will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

Alternatively, the contents of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules (pellets) may be sprinkled over applesauce and then swallowed. This method is appropriate only for patients able to reliably swallow the applesauce without chewing. Other foods have not been tested and should not be substituted for applesauce. Instruct the patient to:

Sprinkle the pellets onto a small amount of applesauce and consume immediately without chewing.
Rinse the mouth to ensure all pellets have been swallowed.
Discard any unused portion of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules after the contents have been sprinkled on applesauce.

Do not administer morphine sulfate extended-release capsules pellets through a nasogastric or gastric tubes.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, USP (once daily) contain pellets of morphine sulfate and are available as follows:
30 mg capsule with a dark blue opaque cap and body, printed with and 3090 on both the cap and body in black ink.
45 mg capsule with a violet opaque cap and body, printed with and 3116 on both the cap and body in black ink.
60 mg capsule with a light green opaque cap and body, printed with and 3091 on both the cap and body in black ink.
75 mg capsule with a brown opaque cap and body, printed with and 3117 on both the cap and body in black ink.
90 mg capsule with a green opaque cap and body, printed with and 3092 on both the cap and body in black ink.
120 mg capsule with a light blue opaque cap and body, printed with and 3093 on both the cap and body in black ink.

Extended-release capsules: 30 mg, 45 mg, 60 mg, 75 mg, 90 mg, 120 mg (3)

capsule image capsule image capsule image capsule image capsule image capsule image