2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

•

Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily (2.1)

•

Treatment should be as short as possible (2.1)

•

Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening (2.1)

•

Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women (2.2)

•

Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate tablets (2.3)

•

The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal (2.4)

2.1 Dosage in Adults

Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. If the 5 mg dose is not effective, the dose can be increased to 10 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. The total dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Zolpidem tartrate tablets should be taken as a single dose and should not be readministered during the same night.

The recommended initial doses for women and men are different because zolpidem clearance is lower in women.

Long-term use of zolpidem is not recommended. Treatment should be as short as possible. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status because the risk of abuse and dependence increases with the duration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] .

2.2 Special Populations

Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate in these patient is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)].

Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment do not clear the drug as rapidly as normal subjects. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Avoid zolpidem tartrate tablets use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.3 Use with CNS Depressants

Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.7)].

2.4 Administration

The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal.

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

5 mg and 10 mg tablets. Tablets not scored.

Zolpidem tartrate tablets are available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration. Tablets are not scored.

Zolpidem tartrate 5 mg tablets are red colored, capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and '5 MG' debossed on the other side.

Zolpidem tartrate 10 mg tablets are peach-yellow colored, capsule shaped tablets with the Torrent logo debossed on one side and '10 MG' debossed on the other side.