2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved. (2.1)
Recommended starting dose: 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours (2.2)
Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose every 1 to 4 days; maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg (2.2)
Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms. Consistent administration with respect to food is recommended. If substitution between dosage forms is necessary, take into consideration these pharmacokinetic differences. (2.2, 2.6, 12.3)
Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. (2.3, 2.4)
To discontinue tizanidine capsules, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions (2.5)

2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine

Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

2.2 Recommended Dosage

The recommended starting dose is 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours.

Dosage can be gradually increased every 1 to 4 days by 2 mg to 4 mg at each dose based on clinical response and tolerability. The maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg. Single doses greater than 16 mg have not been studied.

There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Tizanidine may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure.

Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important.

2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment

In patients with creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment

In patients with hepatic impairment, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Capsules

When discontinuing tizanidine capsules, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)].

2.6 Switching Between With/Without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms

There are pharmacokinetic differences when:

1) switching between administration of tizanidine capsules with or without food

2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food.

If these situations occur, monitor patients for therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Capsules

2 mg - hard gelatin capsules with blue opaque body and blue opaque cap imprinted “APO T2” in black ink.

4 mg - hard gelatin capsules with white opaque body and blue green opaque cap imprinted “APO T4” in black ink.

6 mg - hard gelatin capsules with blue opaque body and blue opaque cap imprinted “APO T6” in black ink.

Capsules 2 mg, 4 mg, and 6 mg (3)