2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1)
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5)
Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. (2.1)
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1, 5.1)
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. (2.1, 5.2)
Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4)
Initiate treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules. (2.1, 2.4)
Periodically reassess patients receiving Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs and symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse (2.4)
Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5)

2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions

Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks.
Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks.
Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available.
There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when,initiating and following dosage increases with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)].

2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose

Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)].

Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent.

2.3 Initial Dosage

Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, attention must be given to:

1. the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist/antagonist the patient has been taking previously

2. the reliability of the relative potency estimate to calculate the dose of oxycodone HCl needed

3. the degree of opioid tolerance

4. the general condition and medical status of the patient, including the patient’s weight and age

5. the balance between pain management and adverse reactions

6. the type and severity of the patient’s pain

7. risk factors for abuse or addiction, including a prior history of abuse or addiction

Use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules as the First Opioid Analgesic

Initiate treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules.

Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules

There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. If a patient has been receiving opioid-containing medications prior to taking Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose (TDD) of oxycodone.

In converting patients from other opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient’s response to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules is imperative. Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules may be necessary, especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly.

Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules to Extended-Release Oxycodone

The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression.

2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy

Individually titrate Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassessfor the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration.

If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)].

Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions.

2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules

Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances.

When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily of opioid (including Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist.

There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper.

It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances.

When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules, USP

Capsules 5 mg: Each capsule has a light brown opaque cap, peach opaque body with black imprint “K 23” on both cap and body, filled with powder containing 5 mg of oxycodone hydrochloride, USP.

Immediate-release capsules: 5 mg (3)