.

2.1 General Dosing Instructions

Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] .
After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs.

In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam is 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .
Meloxicam may be taken without regard to timing of meals.

2.2 Osteoarthritis

For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily.

2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis

For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily.

2.4 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course

For the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended oral dose of meloxicam is 7.5 mg once daily in children who weigh ≥60 kg. There was no additional benefit demonstrated by increasing the dose above 7.5 mg in clinical trials.
Meloxicam tablets should not be used in children who weigh <60 kg.

2.5 Renal Impairment

The use of meloxicam tablets in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended.
In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg per day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Meloxicam

Meloxicam tablets have not shown equivalent systemic exposure to other approved formulations of oral meloxicam. Therefore, meloxicam tablets are not interchangeable with other formulations of oral meloxicam product even if the total milligram strength is the same. Do not substitute similar dose strengths of meloxicam tablets with other formulations of oral meloxicam product.

Meloxicam tablets, USP

7.5 mg: light yellow, round, biconvex, uncoated tablets, debossed with “C74” on one side and plain on the other side.
15 mg: light yellow, round, biconvex, uncoated tablets, debossed with “C75” on one side and plain on the other side.