2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Before initiating bromocriptine mesylate capsules, evaluate for valvular heart disease, including with an echocardiogram. If valvular disease is detected, do not administer bromocriptine mesylate (2.1).
Take bromocriptine mesylate capsules orally with food (2.2)
Recommended dosage for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction is 1.25 mg (one-half of a tablet) to 2.5 mg once daily. Increase the dosage up to 2.5 mg once daily every two to seven days within a recommended dosage of 2.5 mg to 15 mg once daily (2.3)
Recommended dosage for prolactin-secreting adenomas is 1.25 mg to 2.5 mg once daily. Increase the dosage within a recommended dosage of 2.5 mg to 10 mg once daily (2.4)
Recommended dosage for acromegaly is 1.25 mg to 2.5 mg once at bedtime for 3 days. Increase the dosage 1.25 mg to 2.5 mg once daily every 3 days to 7 days up to the maximum recommended dosage is 100 mg/daily (2.5).
Recommended starting dosage for idiopathic or postencephalitic Parkinson's disease is 1.25 mg twice daily. Increase the dosage by 1.25 mg twice daily every 14 days to 28 days up to the maximum recommended daily dosage of 100 mg/day (2.6)
For dosage modifications for concomitant use of bromocriptine mesylate with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, see Full Prescribing Information (2.7, 7)

2.1 Recommended Evaluation Before Initiating bromocriptine mesylate

Before initiating bromocriptine mesylate evaluate for valvular heart disease, including with an echocardiogram. If valvular disease is detected, do not administer bromocriptine mesylate [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].

2.2 Important Administration Instructions

Take bromocriptine mesylate orally with food because a high percentage of patients vomited after they received bromocriptine mesylate under fasting conditions.

2.3 Recommended Dosage for Hyperprolactinemia-Associated Dysfunction

The recommended starting dosage of bromocriptine mesylate in adults with hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction is 1.25 mg (one-half of a tablet) to 2.5 mg once daily. Increase the bromocriptine mesylate dosage up to 2.5 mg once daily every two to seven days as tolerated until an optimal therapeutic response is achieved within a recommended dosage of 2.5 mg to 15 mg once daily.

2.4 Recommended Dosage for Prolactin-Secreting Adenomas

The recommended starting dosage of bromocriptine mesylate in adult and pediatric patients 11 years of age and older with prolactin-secreting adenomas is 1.25 mg (one-half of a tablet) to 2.5 mg once daily. Increase the bromocriptine mesylate dosage as tolerated until an optimal therapeutic response is achieved within a recommended dosage of 2.5 mg to 10 mg once daily.

In cases where adenectomy is elected for prolactin-secreting adenomas, a course of bromocriptine mesylate therapy may be used to reduce the tumor mass prior to surgery.

2.5 Recommended Dosage for Acromegaly

The recommended starting dosage of bromocriptine mesylate in adults for acromegaly is 1.25 mg (one-half of a tablet) to 2.5 mg once at bedtime for 3 days. Increase the dosage 1.25 mg to 2.5 mg once daily every 3 days to 7 days, as tolerated, until an optimal therapeutic response is achieved. Reevaluate patients monthly and modify the dosage based on growth hormone levels and clinical response. For adults with acromegaly, the usual optimal therapeutic dosage range varies from 20 mg to 30 mg once at bedtime in most patients, and the maximum recommended dosage is 100 mg/daily.

After a brief trial with bromocriptine mesylate therapy in adults with acromegaly, if there is no significant reduction in growth hormone levels and no changes in the clinical features of acromegaly consider increasing the dosage or discontinuing bromocriptine mesylate.

For patients with acromegaly treated with pituitary irradiation, withdraw bromocriptine mesylate (e.g., for four to eight weeks) on a yearly basis to assess the clinical effects of radiation on the disease process as well as the effects of bromocriptine mesylate therapy. Consider restarting bromocriptine mesylate if signs or symptoms of acromegaly or increases in growth hormone occur.

2.6 Recommended Dosage for Idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease or Postencephalitic Parkinson Parkinsonism

The recommended starting dosage of bromocriptine mesylate in adults with idiopathic Parkinson's disease or postencephalitic parkinsonism is 1.25 mg (one-half of a tablet) twice daily. Increase the dosage by 1.25 mg (one half of a tablet) twice daily every 14 days to 28 days based on therapeutic response and tolerability, up to the maximum recommended daily dosage of 100 mg/day.

For patients receiving concomitant levodopa, maintain the levodopa dosage during bromocriptine mesylate dosage escalation. If the levodopa dosage is decreased, increase the bromocriptine mesylate dosage in increments of 1.25 mg twice daily.

2.7 Dosage Modification for Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors

Avoid concomitant use of bromocriptine mesylate with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Dosage modifications of bromocriptine mesylate for concomitant use with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors are provided in Table 1 [see Drug Interactions (7)].

Table 1 Dosage Modifications of Bromocriptine Mesylate for Concomitant Use with Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors

Starting Dosage
Maximum Dosage
Hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction in adults
1.25 mg once daily (one-half of a tablet)
3.75 mg once daily
Prolactin-secreting adenomas in adult and pediatric patients 11 years of age and older
1.25 mg once daily
2.5 mg once daily
Acromegaly in adults
1.25 mg once daily
25 mg once daily
Idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism in adults
1.25 mg once daily
12.5 mg twice daily

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

Bromocriptine Mesylate Capsules USP, 5 mg are white to off-white powder filled in size "3" empty Cellulose capsules with tan colored cap printed with "ZA 17" in black ink and white colored body printed with "5 mg" in black ink.

Capsules: 5 mg of bromocriptine mesylate (3)