2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

Dosing in the absence of moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers

Starting dose: 2 mg once daily orally at bedtime (2.1, 2.2)
May increase dose based on clinical response and tolerability by increments of 2 mg once daily no more frequently than at weekly intervals (2.1, 2.2)
Recommended maintenance dose in monotherapy or adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: 8 mg to 12 mg once daily at bedtime (2.1)
Recommended maintenance dose in adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures: 8 mg once daily at bedtime (2.2)

Dosing in the presence of concomitant moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers:

See section 2.3

Specific Populations

Mild and Moderate Hepatic Impairment: Maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg (mild) and 4 mg (moderate) once daily at bedtime (2.4)
Severe Hepatic Impairment: Not recommended (2.4)
Severe Renal Impairment or on Hemodialysis: Not recommended (2.5)
Elderly: Increase dose no more frequently than every 2 weeks (2.6)

2.1 Dosage for Partial-Onset Seizures

Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy

The recommended starting dosage of perampanel tablets in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is 2 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime. Increase dosage no more frequently than at weekly intervals by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability.

The recommended maintenance dose range is 8 mg to 12 mg once daily, although some patients may respond to a dose of 4 mg daily. A dose of 12 mg once daily resulted in somewhat greater reductions in seizure rates than the dose of 8 mg once daily, but with a substantial increase in adverse reactions.

Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducing drugs, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].

2.2 Dosage for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures

Adjunctive Therapy

The recommended starting dosage of perampanel tablets in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 2 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime. Increase dosage no more frequently than at weekly intervals by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability.

The recommended maintenance dose is 8 mg once daily taken at bedtime. Patients who are tolerating perampanel tablets at 8 mg once daily and require further reduction of seizures may benefit from a dose increase up to 12 mg once daily if tolerated.

Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducing drugs, which include certain AEDs [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].

2.3 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of Moderate or Strong CYP3A4 Enzyme Inducers

Moderate and strong CYP3A4 inducers, including enzyme-inducing AEDs such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, and oxcarbazepine, cause a reduction in perampanel plasma levels [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Therefore, in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older receiving these concomitant enzyme-inducing drugs, the recommended starting dosage of perampanel tablets is 4 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime.

Increase dosage by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than at weekly intervals. A maintenance dose has not been established in clinical trials. The highest dose studied in patients on concomitant enzyme-inducing AEDs was 12 mg once daily.

When moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn from a patient’s treatment regimen, the patient should be closely monitored for clinical response and tolerability. Dose adjustment of perampanel tablets may be necessary.

2.4 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment

In patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, the starting dose of perampanel tablets is 2 mg once daily. Increase dosage by increments of 2 mg once daily no more frequently than every 2 weeks. The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg for patients with mild hepatic impairment and 4 mg for patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Perampanel tablets are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.5 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment

Perampanel tablets can be used in patients with moderate renal impairment with close monitoring. A slower titration may be considered, based on clinical response and tolerability. Perampanel tablets are not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment or patients undergoing hemodialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

2.6 Dosage Information for Elderly Patients

In elderly patients, increase dosage no more frequently than every 2 weeks during titration [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)].

3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

2 mg: beige, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W2” on the other side.
4 mg: pink, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W4” on the other side.
6 mg: pink, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W6” on the other side.
8 mg: purple, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W8” on the other side.
10 mg: green, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W0” on the other side.
12 mg: light blue, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets, debossed with “TV” on one side and with “W1” on the other side.

Tablets: 2 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg, 8 mg, 10 mg, and 12 mg (3)