To obtain a credit or refund on a previously filed income
tax return (an original return), you must file an amended
return (Form 1040X or amended Form 1041) within 3
years (including extensions) from the time the return was
filed or within 2 years after the time the tax was paid,
whichever is later. If an original return was filed, the
amount of the refund claimed on the amended return will
be limited to the amount of tax paid within the 3 years pre-
ceding the date on which the amended return is filed.
These rules reflect the statute of limitations for refunds,
and are referred to throughout this publication as the open
refund period.

If the original return was filed early (for example, on
March 1 for a calendar year return), the return is consid-
ered filed on the due date (generally April 15). However, if
the decedent had an extension to file (for example, until
October 15) but filed the return earlier and the IRS re-
ceived it July 1, the return is considered filed on July 1.

Note. The statute of limitations for refunds can be sus-
pended for certain people who live in a federally declared
disaster area or are physically or mentally unable to man-
age their financial affairs. For details, see Publication 556.

Example 1. Paul, a U.S. citizen, died in August 2014
as a result of wounds he sustained as a result of the Sep-
tember 11 attacks. He had income tax liabilities of
$17,500 for 2011, $18,025 for 2012, and $7,000 for 2013.
Prior to his death, Paul filed his tax returns and paid his
tax due on or before April 15 each year since the Septem-
ber 11 attacks. The total, $42,525, plus any income tax li-
ability for 2014, is eligible for tax forgiveness. His personal
representative must request tax forgiveness by the follow-
ing dates to claim a refund of the income tax liabilities
Paul paid for each tax year.

2011 tax year – April 15, 2015.

2012 tax year – April 18, 2016.

2013 tax year – April 18, 2017.

2014 tax year – April 17, 2018.

Although the personal representative may request income
tax forgiveness after these dates, no refund can be paid
because 3 years will have passed from the date the origi-
nal return was filed and no payments will have been made
within the open refund period.

Example 2. A child wounded in the September 11 at-
tacks died in 2012 as a result of those wounds and never
had any income tax liability. She qualifies for the minimum
relief of $10,000 as explained later under Minimum

Amount of Relief. The $10,000 is treated as a tax payment
for 2012 and will be refunded if tax forgiveness is reques-
ted by April 18, 2016.

Amount of Tax Forgiven

The IRS will forgive the decedent's income tax liability as
discussed earlier under Years Eligible for Tax Forgive­
ness. On a joint return, only the decedent's part of the joint
income tax liability is eligible for forgiveness.

To figure the tax to be forgiven, use the following work-

sheets.

Use Worksheet A for any eligible year the decedent
filed a return as single, married filing separately, head
of household, or qualifying widow(er).

Use Worksheet B for any eligible year the decedent
filed a joint return. Also see the illustrated Worksheet
B near the end of this publication for a comprehensive
example.

Do not complete Worksheet A or B if the dece­
dent was not required to file tax returns for the eli­
gible tax years. Instead, complete Worksheet C
and file a return for the decedent's last tax year. See Mini-
mum Amount of Relief, later.

Both spouses died. If both spouses died as a result of a
terrorist attack and they filed a joint return for an eligible
tax year, fill out Worksheet B for each spouse for that
year. Do this to determine if each spouse qualifies for the
minimum relief of $10,000 (discussed later under Mini­
mum Amount of Relief). If you are certain that neither
spouse's total forgiven tax liability for all eligible years is
less than $10,000, skip Worksheet B. However, attach a
computation of the forgiven tax liability to the final income
tax return or amended tax return for each eligible year.
The forgiven tax liability is the total tax shown on the joint
return minus the taxes listed in the instructions for line 4 of
Worksheet B.

Residents of community property states. If the dece-
dent was domiciled in a community property state and the
spouse reported half the community income on a separate
return, the surviving spouse can get a refund of taxes paid
on his or her share of the decedent's income for the eligi-
ble years. Also, all of the decedent's income taxes paid for
the eligible years will be refunded to either the executor or
administrator of the estate, or to the surviving spouse if
there is no legal representative.

Publication 3920 (September 2014)

Page 5

TIP