A volunteer prepares a fraudulent return by adding household employee wages that the taxpayer
did not earn. The taxpayer received a notice from IRS for additional information needed about the
earnings that the taxpayer did not have so the IRS corrected the tax return and began assessing
additional taxes, interest, and penalties.

Hardship on the taxpayer

For a low-income taxpayer, it could be impossible to make full payment and recover from return fraud. If
full payment is not received, the taxpayer will receive several collection notices. If full payment is still not
received, the taxpayer will be sent through the IRS collection process. This could also involve the filing of a
tax lien or a levy (garnishment) on their bank accounts and/or wages. The taxpayer may be eligible for an
installment agreement, but it could take several years to pay the IRS debt.

A taxpayer’s return fraudulently contains the Earned Income Credit (EIC). The taxpayer has
already received the refund when an audit notice is issued. During the audit, the taxpayer cannot
provide documentation to support the EIC claim.

The taxpayer is disallowed $3,000 in EIC and now has a balance due of over $4,000, including
penalties and interest. This amount reflects only the EIC disallowance. An additional disallowance
of the Head of Household (HOH) filing status and Child Tax Credit (CTC) could generate a balance
of over $6,000.

Identity Theft

Nationwide, identity theft continues to grow at an alarming rate. Unfortunately, there are instances of
unscrupulous volunteers using information they have obtained at a VITA/TCE site to steal the identity
of taxpayers. For example, using a stolen SSN to file a false tax return to obtain a refund is a form of
identity theft. Any suspicion of identity theft occurring at a VITA/TCE site must be reported to IRS Criminal
Investigation (CI) and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA).

The IRS considers this a very serious crime and put measures in place to detect possible identity theft
situations at VITA/TCE sites. The IRS is continually implementing: new processes for handling returns,
new filters to detect fraud, new initiatives to partner with stakeholders, and a continuing commitment to
investigate the criminals who commit these crimes.

Jane, an IRS tax law-certified volunteer, is working at a VITA site on the first day the site is open.
She has volunteered to electronically file the tax returns for the site to help out the coordinator.
Therefore, she is given the needed permission level in the tax preparation software.

That day, Joe, the coordinator, opens the locked VITA file cabinet and discovers an e-file
acceptance report he forgot to destroy from the previous year. He asks Jane to take the report
down the hall to the shredder because it has several SSNs listed. Jane puts the report in her purse
without Joe’s knowledge.

Later that night at home, Jane opens the VITA tax preparation software and prepares falsified tax
returns for the eight SSNs listed on the report she took from the VITA site that morning. She makes
sure the returns all have large refunds. Jane puts her own bank account information in the direct
deposit fields and electronically files the returns.

Jane stole the identity of these eight taxpayers by preparing false federal tax returns to steal the
refunds.

SPEC has a system that extracts information pertaining to tax returns filed through the VITA/TCE
program where multiple tax refunds are being deposited into a single bank account. Jane’s actions
were reported to IRS CI and TIGTA.

11
Exercises

Using your reference materials, answer the following questions.

Question 1: Taxpayer Edna brings her tax documents to the site. She completes Form 13614-C,
Intake/Interview and Quality Review Sheet. She indicates on page 2 of Form 13614-C that she has
self-employment income, along with other income and expenses.

Joe, a volunteer tax preparer, reviews Form 13614-C with Edna. He asks if she brought all of her
documents today, and asks to see them. Included in the documents is Form 1099-NEC, Nonemployee
Compensation, showing $7,500 of non-employee compensation in Box 1. She tells Joe that she has a
cleaning business that provides services to local businesses.

Edna says she also received $4,000 in cash payments for additional cleaning work. When Joe asks if she
received any documentation supporting these payments, she says no, the payments were simply paid to
her for each cleaning job she performed.

Joe suggests because the IRS has no record of the cash payments, Edna does not need to report these
payments on her return. Edna is concerned and feels like she could “get in trouble” with the IRS if she does
not report all of her income. Joe assures her that the chance of the IRS discovering that she did not report
cash income is very small.

Joe prepares Form 1040, Individual Income Tax Return. On Schedule C, line 1, he reports only the $7,500
reported in Box 1 of Form 1099-NEC. When Joe completes the return and after the quality review has been
completed, he hands it to Edna to sign Form 8879, IRS e-file Signature Authorization.

a. Is there a Volunteer Standards of Conduct violation? If so, identify the applicable VSC and explain.

b. What should the volunteer have done?

c. What could happen to the volunteer?

Question 2: Taxpayer George completes Form 13614-C, indicating on page 1 that his marital status is
single with one dependent, Amelia. Volunteer preparer Marge reviews George's intake form and taxpayer
information documents.

When Marge asks if Amelia is related to George, he says no, that Amelia is the child of a personal friend
who is not filing a tax return. Amelia’s mother told George he could claim the child and even gave him
Amelia’s Social Security card. Marge then asks whether George provided more than one-half of Amelia’s
support, but George says no. He goes on to say that he should be able to claim Amelia as a dependent
because no one else is claiming her.

Marge agrees that, although Amelia is not George’s qualifying child or relative, he can still claim her as
a dependent because no one else will. Marge further suggests that the child could be listed as George’s
niece who lives with him, so that he can file as a Head of Household and claim the Earned Income Credit
(EIC). Marge completes page 1 of Form 13614-C accordingly.

Marge assures George that the chances of the IRS discovering that he and Amelia are not related would be
very small. Marge prepares the return with the Head of Household status and claiming the EIC and Child
Tax Credits for “qualifying child” Amelia. George signs Form 8879.

a. Is there a Volunteer Standards of Conduct violation? If so, identify the applicable VSC and explain.

b. What should the volunteer have done?

c. What could happen to the volunteer?

20