For taxpayers with household income below 400 percent of the FPL, the amount of tax liability due to excess
advance credit payments is limited as provided in the repayment limitation table (see below).

Household Income Percentage of Federal Poverty Line

Limitation Amount
for Single

Limitation Amount for
All Other Filing Statuses

Repayment Limitation Table

Less than 200%

At least 200%, but less than 300%

At least 300%, but less than 400%

400% or more

$300

$800

$1,325

No limit

$600

$1,600

$2,650

No limit

Consult the instructions for Form 8962, Premium Tax Credit Credit, and Publication 974, Premium Tax Credit, for
more information. For taxpayers eligible to use the Married Filing Separately filing status, the repayment limitation
above applies to the spouses separately based on the household income reported on each return.

Taxpayers who chose not to have advance credit payments made on their behalf during the tax year will get all of the
benefit of their premium tax credit on their tax return. This will either increase their refund or lower the taxes owed.

What about unusual situations?

For situations listed below, consult the instructions for Form 8962, Premium Tax Credit Credit, and Publication 974,
Premium Tax Credit.

What if taxpayers have a shared policy purchased through the Marketplace?

If a taxpayer, or another member of the taxpayer’s tax family, is enrolled in a policy with a person not in the
taxpayer’s tax family (a shared policy), the taxpayer may have to allocate the items on Form 1095-A, Health
Insurance Marketplace Statement (the enrollment premium, the premium for the applicable SLCSP, and the advance
credit payments) with another taxpayer (a shared policy allocation). The following taxpayers may have to do a shared
policy allocation:

14

● Taxpayers who got divorced or legally separated in during the tax year

● A taxpayer who claims as a dependent an individual (the taxpayer’s child, for example) who was enrolled in a

policy with an individual in another taxpayer family (the taxpayer’s former spouse, for example)

● A taxpayer who is enrolled in a policy with an individual (the taxpayer’s child, for example) who is claimed as a

dependent by another taxpayer (the taxpayer’s former spouse, for example).

● A taxpayer filing a separate return from his or her spouse

Taxpayers complete the shared policy allocation on Form 8962, Premium Tax Credit, Part 4.

What if taxpayers get married during the year?

If taxpayers got married during the tax year and one or both spouses received the benefit of advance credit
payments for the year, the spouses may be eligible to use an alternative calculation to determine their excess
advance credit payments. The alternative calculation will generally allocate half of the adjusted gross income on the
return to each spouse and can be used to reduce excess advance credit payments, but not to increase net PTC.

See the instructions for Form 8962, Premium Tax Credit, for eligibility. If eligible, taxpayers will complete Form 8962,
Part 5, Alternative Calculation of Year of Marriage.

AFFORDABALE CARE ACT: WHAT YOU AND YOUR FAMILY NEED TO KNOW